Coming into 2026, there's obviously been
a lot of optimism. I never want to bet
against the resiliency of US large caps.
>> When you break up the market and see
where it's coming from, the bulk of it
is coming from [music] big tech.
>> You have to be very, very careful about
how you invest long-term at scale.
>> You have to be focused on fundamentals.
At the end of the day,
>> this is Bloomberg surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Blimp Stefan starts
right now. Coming into Monday, Chair
Powell pushing back. This new threat is
not about my testimony last [music]
June. It is not about Congress's
oversight role. This is about whether
the Fed will be able to continue to set
interest rates based on evidence or
whether instead monetary policy will be
directed by political pressure or
intimidation. [music]
Fed chair J. Pal insisting Fed
independence is under attack sending US
equities down bond yield higher the
dollar weaker and helping to push
precious metals to fresh all-time highs.
The Fed chair is standing firm.
>> The Fed chair coming out announcing
this. Who knows when he actually got
these subpoenas announcing these and
saying, "Guess what? This has nothing to
do with the renovations. This has
everything to do with increasing
pressure by this president, by this
administration, on the Federal Reserve's
independence for us standing up for the
American people. Look, [music] whatever
your goals are, if President Trump's
goal is getting interest rates on the
long end lower, this is failing because
long- end interest rates are rising, the
dollar is weakening, and frankly, you're
seeing the sort of reversal to the
flight of America trade. So, question
is, who's behind this and what's the
ultimate motivation? We'll get into that
a little bit later, but Lisa, you got to
think about what's new. Attacks on this
institution not new. [music] What's new
is that response from Chairman Powell
over the weekend in this quote should be
seen in [music] the broader context of
the administration's threats and ongoing
pressure. The chairman calling the
administration out pretty clearly.
>> Absolutely. Pretty clearly with a rare
[music] video message alongside a
statement. And to Lisa's point, this
might have unintended consequence of
what the president wants in terms of
interest rates. Also, whether or not J
Pal actually steps aside. Yes, we know
his chair ends May 15th this year,
[music] but he is still a governor until
the end of January 31st, 2028. [music]
And potentially what this does is maybe
makes him want to stay on the Federal
Reserve a little bit longer.
>> And it might make life a little bit
harder to appoint a new Fed chair. This
from Senator Tillis, the Republican, by
the way. Here's the quote. I will oppose
the confirmation of any nominee for the
Fed, including the upcoming Fed chair
vacancy, until this legal matter is
fully resolved. and he is on the Senate
Banking Committee and right now it is 13
Republicans to 11 Democrats. If Tom
Tillis does defect to the Democratic
side or there is unified agreement on
not getting through any additional Fed
nominees until this issue is resolved.
Well, guess what? You have a hamstrung
administration trying to get new uh
nominees through. And by the way, why
haven't we got a new nominee? If you
[music] want to make Fed Chair J Pal a
lame duck Fed chair, why not have
somebody else waiting in the wings? Some
Tillis could be an individual that
completely blocks Trump's [music] next
Fed nominee and then once again you have
the chair Jay Powell [music] staying on
the board longer than his chairmanship
ends. So this could potentially be very
much so a drawn out process for this
administration. [music]
>> Look, I look at this and I just think
unintended consequences. Go to the price
action. Let's not freak [music] out
about this. Sure, equities are down,
bonds down, yields are up only a little
bit. Dollar's only a touch weaker as
well. Directionally, I get it. The sell
America stuff that people are [music]
worried about, but the scale of the move
pretty muted. Why? The unintended
consequences of all of this is just the
view. Inflation expectations have been
really [music] anchored in this bond
market for the last 12 months, even
under the pressure coming from the White
House towards the Federal Reserve. Why?
That view is out that this will just
galvanize other people on the committee
[music] and make it very, very hard for
anyone coming in to get the low interest
rates the president desires. If this is
an attack on the Federal Reserve, it is
not a welloiled attack on the Federal
Reserve that people think will be
effective in actually getting the
[music] Fed to disproportionately lower
interest rates based on economic
fundamentals. And that is what the
market seems to be implying.
>> We got a lot to get through. Now, I
thought I'd wake up this morning and
talk about credit card stock. So, there,
[laughter] you know, spent a lot of
Saturday morning looking at that story.
The day is young.
>> Here we are Monday. If you want to check
out credit [laughter] card stocks, check
them out in the premarket. Getting
absolutely hammered as the [music]
president considers or at least wants to
is trying to take steps to cap interest
rates at 10% for what? 12 months.
[music] Yeah.
>> And this is what's happening in the
pre-market.
>> Yeah. 10% versus the 25 to 30% interest
rates. Of course, his authority to do
so. A real question [music] here. But
guess what? If someone wants to appeal
to affordability, they attack banks. If
you want to be a populist candidate,
whether it's Bernie Sanders or President
Trump, you attack banks. We are about to
get bank earnings. They're going to
probably be pretty good. And let me let
me think even if it isn't this, it'll be
something else [music] once those
results come out.
>> I am a little bit surprised about the
market move for this. The president on
Air Force One last night said that
[music] they need to start following the
law by January 20th. Well, he only put
out a ch social post, but it is not law
yet that you are capping interest rates
at 10%. There is a bill circulating in
Congress when it comes to the Senate. It
was introduced [music] by Senator Bernie
Sanders and Josh Holly. It is a populist
message as Lisa said and you are going
to continuously [music] hear these
populist messages as 2026 really starts
to feel like 2024 and we're back [music]
on the campaign trail.
>> Capital One down by 10% in the
pre-market so far. We'll get you more on
that story a little bit later this hour.
Coming up this hour, Steve Chevron of
Federated with stocks pulling back from
alltime highs. Toby Marcus of Wolf
Research as the Fed has served subpoenas
from the Justice Department and Kelsey
Barrow of JP Morgan Asset Management as
the Salame America trade returns. We
begin this hour with our top story. The
DOJ serving subpoenas to the Federal
Reserve.
>> The threat of criminal charges is a
consequence of the Federal Reserve
setting interest rates based on our best
assessment of what will serve the public
rather than following the preferences of
the president.
This is about whether the Fed will be
able to continue to set interest rates
based on evidence and economic
conditions or whether instead monetary
policy will be directed by political
pressure or intimidation. Fetcher J Pal
vowed to serve out his full term despite
the threats. Joining us now is
Bloomberg's Mike McKe. Mike, a new front
for this battle.
>> Oh, absolutely. And this is
extraordinary. Not just what the
administration is doing, but the fact
that the Fed went this far in responding
to it. They normally try to keep their
heads down and stay out of politics, but
here you have the Fed chair accusing the
president of the United States basically
of extortion. Now, it's important to
realize this is not an indictment yet.
This is just a subpoena for documents
from the DC US attorney Janine Piro
demanding the documents related to the
Fed's renovations of two of its
buildings. Now, the president has been
stymied in his effort to fire Powell,
but the Supreme Court takes that up
later this month, so we don't know where
all this is going to go from here. Uh
the president last night denied
involvement to NBC, saying I don't know
anything about it, but he's certainly
not very good at the Fed and he's not
very good at building buildings. We'll
see where the Fed and the markets go
from here. Markets not really changing
their view of a January move, only a 4%
chance. Uh and that went away sort of
after the jobs report on Friday. But it
is interesting as you guys were talking
about to consider what would happen with
the effort to put in a new Fed chair.
Senator Tillis's decision to vote
against anybody until something happens
uh to resolve this uh makes it
impossible to get anybody out of the
banking committee since there's a 13-11
split between Republicans and Democrats
and one Republican defection makes it a
tie vote and the nomination sits in the
banking committee. So, it's not clear
what the administration's going to get
out of this, except it may be an effort
to pressure Jay Pal to resign as a
governor once the his term as chairman
is over. McKe, stay close. I think we're
in for a long morning. Here's a view on
Wall Street this morning. Steve Chevron
of Federated Hermes writing the
following. Readers of this note should
be skeptical that a market already up
83% since the end of 22 could possibly
enjoy yet another double-digit return.
Surprise, surprise. We think it's going
to be another good one. Steve joins us
now for more. Steve, good morning. I
assume you didn't write that last night.
>> No, I [laughter] I thought I thought we
were going to have a very different
discussion when I left.
>> Is this going to be another good one
with everything in mind? Look, I mean, I
I think the story is and what we were
writing about and and and we're trying
to identify surprises, ironically, for
2026 when we were writing about it is
that there there really is a good
economic setup, whether it's continued
AI, capex, upside, surprises to
employment that we see, uh, you know,
kind of tailwinds for the consumer that
are starting to emerge, earnings
estimates that continue to rise. But,
you know, as you know, the great
philosopher Mike Tyson once said, you
know, have a plan until you get punched
in. Let's talk about the punch in the
face we got overnight. So look, the
chairman's come out, stood his ground.
This Federal Reserve has been under
attack for much of the last 12 months,
and the market has barely blinked. Is
there any reason for the market to
blink? Now,
>> we'll see. Look, I I've sat around this
table with you for, I don't know, the
last 10 years. And and most of the time
when you have a a political upheaval
like this, being patient has been
rewarded. And that's that's kind of our
brand. I mean, and I think that that's
probably a good default position. Um,
however, I mean, it it almost doesn't
matter how you got to the message last
night. I mean, it take both sides
potentially. I if you have a Federal
Reserve chair engaging in criminal
activity, that's really not good. If you
have uh a president using political
pretext to indict a Fed chair, that's
not good. That message being released is
certainly not one that argues for Fed
independence. There's there's really no
argument that says this leads to lower
rates, which is what I think everybody
probably wants to see happen. It offsets
the neg the positive, which was mortgage
rates coming down last week, which I
thought was hugely positive, coming
below 6%. And I think this complicates
the job for whoever the next Fed share
is, which was already going to be
somewhat complicated in terms of
expressing independence. This just makes
it a little bit harder. So, you know, my
hope, not just as a market participant,
but as an American, is that we lower the
temperature on this. And you know, this
ends up being a curl fluff, but the
longer it goes on, the harder it is for
that to happen.
>> You said that the market likes to look
past some of these policy uh crosswinds
that keep emerging. And yet, it seems
like the market is counting on the ones
that are good for it and dismissing the
ones that are bad for it. It seems like
a lot of the positive views are based on
fiscal and monetary stimulus and any of
the negative views around some of the uh
the concerns there are sort of
dismissed. Do you think that that's
valid?
>> I don't know that's 100% fair. I mean
there were a lot of concerns around
tariffs, right, that just didn't
actually materialize in the data. So I
mean I I think um I think the reason why
the market has done that is generally
speaking a lot of the the the news flow
or the or the announcements that have
been market unfriendly have ultimately
proven to be negotiating PS right you're
going to do drug pricing you're going to
institute it and then that leads to a
kind of negotiation with Fizer that ends
up being okay so I think the market has
some patience with the president's
negotiating style I I think you might
ultimately see that hold true on some of
the things that are going on with the
credit card companies right now. But the
Fed thing does feel a little bit
different because again, you know, you
you run the risk of going to a point of
no return and making it harder to kind
of pull back from that. Maybe last
night's video was that we we'll see.
>> When you say that you think that this
time could be somewhat different when it
comes to the credit card companies,
>> I think it'll be similar to what
happened with with with F.
>> You do think it would be similar to what
happened. So, but do you think that in
general the bank's outperformance is
challenged by the idea that they're
going to be on the hot seat when they're
reporting big earnings at a time when
there's a huge populist upswing?
>> Yeah, I think clearly the 2026 battle
lines are being drawn and it's going to
be a midterm election on affordability
and it's going to be a race to populism
and I think that that's going to cause
some some heartburn for certain
companies based on the news flow. I
think what what what you see with the
credit card companies, same thing that
happened with the drug companies. When
you get these kinds of announcements,
it's it's both a threat with the
president saying this really is
bothering me. It's also an invitation to
negotiate. And if you can do that
constructively like the healthcare
companies did, you end up with something
that you can live with and helps
consumers a bit. I think that that kind
of announcement in my mind fits into
that frame. I I don't know I don't
really know what the Fed can do to kind
of lower the temperature on this. We may
have kind of hit the point of no return
there.
>> Well, do you think the chances of Jay
Powell staying on to serve out his full
term as governor until 2028, those
chances have increased overnight?
>> I mean, it sure seems that way. I mean,
you can't deliver that. I mean, you you
cannot deliver that message
that directly
and then say, well, my term as chair is
done. I'm going to step. I don't know
how you do that. I mean, if you are
really that concerned
about, you know, the institution and let
let's be clear. I mean, I I I've been
critical of of the chair quite a bit on
this show over the years. I I think he's
he's helped us get to this point. I
mean, I think Trump deserves all of the
responsibility for what's happened
yesterday as well. But they've both, I
think, acted in ways that have
undermined this institution over the
course of the last several years. And I
think I don't know how you can make that
claim and then walk away. So, I would
assume that those odds are higher.
>> Is that of interest? What do you think
the chairman's done to undermine the
institution? I think that there were
certain optics of things that could have
been done better. I don't think that you
can not hike rates for a year in 2021
when inflation is raising and then hike
the first time after you're renominated
and then move to 75 basis points after
you're reconfirmed. I don't think he did
it for political purposes. I wouldn't
cast that aspersion on the Fed. I just
think that when you're managing an
institution like that, optics really
matter. And when you when you open up
that that box, it it's not helpful. Um,
and so I think there's been little
things like that. I'm not saying that he
deserves any of this. I have no idea if
he does or he doesn't. But I am saying
that the relationship between the White
House and the Federal Reserve, I think
over the last two administrations has
been managed in a way that's not great
for the institution.
>> Steve, it's good to see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> Thanks for dropping by. Thank you. Steve
Chevron there of Federated. A messy
start to a new trading week. Only a week
or two into a new year. Equity futures
on the S&P down by about 0.6% 6% with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihira. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi John. Federal housing director Bill
Py is a driving force behind the Trump
administration's [music] subpoena of the
Federal Reserve. Sourc is telling us
here at Bloomberg Pi is responsible
[music] for intensifying pressure on
Chair Powell as President Trump prepares
to announce his pick for [music] a new
Fed chair. Bill Py will join
surveillance at 7:30 a.m. Eastern this
morning. Meanwhile, shares of major
credit card issuers are falling in the
pre-market. President [music] Donald
Trump demanding they cap interest rates
at 10% for one year. Trump saying if
[music] they do not lower them by
January 20th, they are violating the
law. His demand was not backed up by
legislation and he provided [music] no
explanation for how the lenders would be
breaking the law. and Iran warning the
US and Israel against any intervention
as protests in the country enter their
third week. [music] President Trump
saying he is closely monitoring the
protests and considering potential
military [music] options. Activists say
that at least 540 people have been
killed [music] in Iran so far. That
should John
>> Yahari, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next on the program, Chair
Pal standing firm. The threat of
criminal charges is a consequence of the
Federal Reserve setting interest rates
based on our [music] best assessment of
what will serve the public rather than
following the preferences of the
president.
>> A conversation up next with Tobin Marcus
of Wolf Research live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Live from New [music] York City, welcome
to the program. Equities down clear
underperformance worldwide. Right now in
the United States, equities are down by
0.6% on S&P 500. [music] Futures down by
point8 on the NASDAQ in the bond market.
Twos, 10, 30s. You'll just see the long
end of the curve. Yields bleeding a bit
higher. Up by four basis points on 30s
to 485. On 10, up by two, still
rangebound. We should stress that, but
up by two basis points to 41910 on a
10-year maturity. [music] At Sven this
morning, our main story, Chair Powell,
standing firm. The threat of criminal
charges is a consequence of the Federal
Reserve setting interest rates based on
our best assessment of what will serve
the public rather than following the
preferences of the president.
This is about whether the Fed will be
able to continue to set interest rates
based on evidence and economic
conditions or whether instead monetary
policy will be directed by political
pressure or intimidation. [music] I will
continue to do the job the Senate
confirmed me to do. So, here's the
latest this morning. Tensions between
the Fed and the White House soaring to
new heights after the DOJ threatens the
central bank with a criminal indictment.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
from Washington with the latest. Tyler,
that is quite a move overnight.
Hey John, good morning. It is a major
escalation against Fed Chair Jerome
Powell as he pushes back against what is
considered to be unprecedented action.
Now, people familiar with the matter
tell us here at Bloomberg News that FHFA
Director Bill Py was a driving force
behind these subpoenas and it is our
understanding that the US Attorney
General for DC, Janine Piro, green lit
this investigation. She is considered to
be a longtime ally of this White House.
Now, in an interview with NBC News,
President Trump denied having knowledge
of this investigation beforehand, but he
of course has long threatened uh Powell
and the central bank, which as you've
been discussing has been at the center
of Powell's defense against these
allegations. The investigation centers
on accusations that Powell misled
Congress in June testimony about
renovations to the Fed's headquarters
here in Washington. These are
allegations that Powell denies. Though
budget documents do show that the Fed
did see cost overruns last year,
reaching $2.5 billion compared to
estimates of $1.9 billion in 2019.
Powell has said that those cost overruns
were standard and uh they were factored
in because of what were rising costs and
ultimately plans going uh uh having to
shift due to how the renovations were
ultimately going. But it's important to
point out there, we just showed
President Trump with Jerome Powell
touring those renovations. At the time,
President Trump said that he didn't
think that cost overruns actually
amounted to a fireable offense because
there is a very high legal bar here to
remove a Federal Reserve official. And
that is why this investigation focusing
on Congress is going to be so important
to the DOJ advancing their own case. But
John, as you've discussed earlier on
this program, Congress could also styy
these efforts after we heard from
Senator Tom Telis that he could block
any Federal Reserve nominees. I will
point out that Tom Telis is retiring.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest down in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. Joining us
now to extend the conversation, Tobin
Marcus of Wolf Research. Tobin, this was
new. The chairman has really resisted
engaging on this topic for the last 12
months. He could not have been any
clearer about his personal thoughts
overnight. How does this change the
story?
It makes sense that it changed the way
that the Fed is reacting. The direct
threat of criminal prosecution, uh I
think it's very understandable that
Chair Pal will be reacting in a
different way. But in terms of the the
setup for financial markets going
forward, you know, I don't know that
this adds to the credibility of the
threats against the Fed. The idea that
DOJ would actually be able to make a
criminal case seems very unlikely to me.
Uh we're already seeing the backlash
from the Senate. Tyler mentioned uh
Senator Tillis like he is in a unique
position to exercise this threat as a
retiring member. It's a credible threat
given his ability to deadlock the
banking committee. So, you know, that's
a problem I think in terms of um the
likelihood that Chair Pal decides to
stay on. That's also a problem. So, it's
kind of counterproductive on its on its
face. Um uh you know, which I think is
going to help mute the reaction of
financial markets today. Is the bar now
higher for Trump's Fed nominee pick
given what we heard from Senator Tillis?
>> Well, you know, I think that nothing
that we see from the nominee within the
four walls in the nomination I think is
going to change Tillis's mind. Uh Tillis
seems appropriately in my mind to be
concerned about the sort of state of the
institution in the way that it's being
approached overall. Uh we've always
expected that President Trump was going
to pick someone he believed was going to
be dependably loyal uh for the next Fed
chair. I still think that's true. That's
always inclined me personally towards uh
Hasset within the consideration set, but
we'll see what he does.
>> So, but I'm just wondering if someone
like Governor Waller this morning wakes
up with a much better chance to be the
next Fed chair.
I
>> I mean, look, like the set of
considerations within the White House
that led to the actions to which Powell
is reacting, I think, is also going to
steer them towards someone like Hasset
over someone like Waller. uh if if the
president had a mindset that was going
to steer him towards Waller who you know
I think would be a good pick. I think
that's sort of certainly if you give
true serum to market participants that
who who they overwhelmingly would choose
among this consideration set like
precisely because Trump is apprehensive
about Waller that's the same kind of
thinking that's leading him to continue
escalating pressure on Powell. Tobin,
how do you understand the past week? I
guess is a way to ask because we've seen
so many different headlines and policy
pronouncements coming out of the White
House from credit card fees to uh what
has really been mounting pressure on the
Fed chair to Venezuela to Iran. Why so
much to start the year?
>> Yeah, don't forget single family
rentals. Don't forget the the
restrictions on capital return for
defense companies trillion dollar
defense budget.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I mean, look, like obviously
we're going into a midterm year. Uh,
clearly the the president is is at one
level, I think, searching for a set of
policies and a message around those
policies that's going to try and defy
the historical trend for the president's
party to lose the house. Um, he's talked
explicitly about not wanting to get
impeached again. I think that is
something that that House Democrats may
find themselves uh very tempted to do if
they win. So, you know, that's the
biggest driver, but he's also just been
very very active. I think anytime he
sees something that there's any
possibility of getting policy traction
on um you know in in Trump 2.0 even more
so than Trump 1.0 you know he wants to
push the limits of what his authorities
are. He wants to show that pace of
activity. You know people in the the
administration love to talk about Trump
speed. They put out more uh executive
orders during the first term than anyone
uh in a 100 years. Um so yeah I mean I
think we're going to see a lot of turn
and activity and the question for
markets in a lot of cases is going to be
can they actually do these things that
they're floating. So with the credit
card announcement today like I think the
answer most likely is no and so some of
the price moves will probably prove to
be a little bit shortlived.
>> Tobin appreciate your take as always and
Marcus there of Wolf Research. Just to
pick up on that last point let's say the
president could achieve this cap
interest rates at 10%. The great irony
of all of this is that could have a
chilling effect on credit availability
and spending in this country and the
consequences may well feel like a rate
hike. Same story with the pressure
that's building on the Federal Reserve
to your point Lisa for the top of the
hour. the consequences could well be
higher interest rates, which could well
be the complete opposite of what the
president and this White House wants.
>> I mean, ultimately, what you're seeing
right now on the margins is implied
higher mortgage rates on the heels of
what happened with respect to uh the
subpoena sent to the Fed chair. When it
comes to credit cards, a lot of people
are talking about how any kind of
proposal to cap interest rates emboldens
buy now pay later, which has
significantly higher interest rates than
even these banks. So, exactly to your
point, it [music] is the right one.
These ideas are typically ideas that
come from the financially illiterate
left and you're seeing [music] much more
of it from the Republican party. And you
should call it out for what it is, just
bad ideas.
>> This is a circle. Populism uniting on
one end and that's what we see right
now.
>> If you're just joining us, welcome to
the program. Airquy's down by just 0.6%.
[music]
Alltime highs coming into a brand new
trading week. Equities on the S&P 500
pulling back from those record highs
this morning. We're down by 0.6% on the
S&P. [music] On the NASDAQ, we're down
by 0.85. On the Russell, negative by
0.3. [music]
If you switch on the board and get to
the bond market, who's 10, 30 shaping up
as follows. Now, we can talk about
direction and then we can talk about
scale. Let's [music] just sit on
direction. Yields are up by three basis
points. It's a best deepener. 30s are up
by four. The two years anchored. speaks
to maybe some concern about Fed
independence. [music] I get it. But when
you think about scale, these aren't big
moves, Lisa. I understand the concern,
but these aren't big [music] moves this
morning.
>> A lot of people think that this doesn't
actually mean that the Fed chair is
going to be forcibly removed. And if
anything, some people [music] are
speculating it could make him even stay
on uh the Fed as a Fed governor, even
after his term as Fed chair is up. The
[music] bigger picture though might be a
warning and I think this is what people
are picking up on and maybe exacerbating
if they want to get in on the trade that
sort of this would be the knee-jerk
reaction to a feeling of some sort of
loss of Fed [music] independence.
Whether or not this is extreme, no, it
is not an extreme move, but this is the
direction of travel should this become a
more feasible proposal.
>> If this was achievable, if it happened,
if the Fed chair got sacked and someone
came in and took control and dropped
rates aggressively, I think they'd buy
bonds, [music] too. I'd be much more
concerned about what's going to happen
in FX. And you get a little little
sprinkle of that this morning too.
Precious metals alltime highs, gold,
silver, dollar weaker against everything
[music] in G10. Europositive by 4/10en
of 1%. Again, the move is small, but
directionally this morning, it all
speaks to [music] the same thing.
Concern about what took place overnight.
As we count you down to the opening,
about 3 hours from the cash open. Let's
get you some morning moves with Danny.
[music] Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. There's some real concern
when it comes to these credit card
companies. This started after the close
on Friday when President Trump said that
he wanted credit card companies or was
calling for them to cap interest rates
at 10%. It's not clear how and what
mechanism he can do that, but on Sunday
he reiterated that call saying that
these companies [music] would be in
violation of the law if they didn't make
those changes by January 20th for one
year. American Express down 4%, Capital
1 getting hammered down nearly 10%, JP
Morgan down nearly 3%. City uh all those
other credit card companies also getting
hurt. By the way, Clara and all the buy
now pay later companies, those are
surging at the pre-market. Elsewhere,
Walmart having a positive start to its
week. Shares are up just under 4% in the
pre-market. Two things going on. For
one, the NASDAQ announcing that Walmart
will be joining the NASDAQ 100. Jeffrey
says that that will add $19 billion
flowing into Walmart stock given its
inclusion in passive indices. They've
also announced a partnership with
Alphabet that you will be able to shop
on Walmart via the Gemini chat
assistant. They're already have a
partnership with Chat GPT. Finally, just
rounding up another company moving on
the president's words. President Trump
saying that he would be inclined to
exclude Exxon from any rebuild of
Venezuela's oil infrastructure, saying
he didn't like the response of the CEO
Darren Woods, calling [music] it cute.
The CEO for his part during that round
table with oil executives called
Venezuela uninvestable. So those shares
down about 1 and a3% here [music] at the
pre-market. John,
>> hey Danny, thank you. I think it's easy
to explain the difference in tone coming
from Chevron and Exxon on Friday into
the weekend. One's in Venezuela and the
other's not and clearly doesn't want to
be at this point.
>> One has been in Venezuela for 100 years
and it's probably why Secretary Marco
Rubio sent Trump a note and then Trump
read it out loud saying go back to
Chevron because they have actual on the
ground intel about [music] Venezuela and
they can easily add more to production.
Exon Mobile got burned twice.
>> Well, that's what I was going to say.
>> Why are they going to go back in?
>> This is my point. If you have a longer
term view, regardless of who the
president is, and you've had your money
seized, billions of dollars twice in the
past couple of decades. I mean, really,
is that something that is cute to just
say, I don't know.
>> And Kico Phillips, the president [music]
said, "We're starting on a clean plate,
a clean slate when it comes to going
back in, although they are still owed
$12 billion." [music]
>> That story, that news conference feels
like a lifetime. Okay, by the way, a lot
changed over the weekend. On our radar
down this morning, the Federal Reserve
receiving a subpoena [music] from the
Department of Justice, threatening to
indict Chairman Powell over his
testimony on headquarter renovations.
Pal saying the threat is retaliation for
keeping rates too high. President Donald
Trump saying the US needs to work in
Greenland. The president saying if the
US does not take it, Russia or China
will. The president adding he's willing
to secure the territory quote the hard
way if authorities are unwilling to cut
a deal. And finally, shares of credit
card firms sinking in pre-market
training as President Trump demands
lenders cap interest rates at 10% for
one year. Trump adding the companies
will be in violation of the law if they
do not comply by his January 20th
deadline.
>> Look, there are a lot of questions about
how feasible it is for him to actually
enact this as policy. In fact, many
people say it's not going to happen.
Nonetheless, this does heighten the bar
heading into earning season. Just think
about how some of these banks are going
to come out and talk about huge profits
in the face of this popular upswing
against them. Because guess what? When
everybody wants to talk about
affordability, who's the easy boogeyman?
Well, guess what? It is the big banks,
especially when they're making big
money.
>> So, the president of the United States
addresses the World Economic Forum in
Davos, Switzerland a week on Wednesday.
And I imagine this story might be coming
up. And I think that event could be a
market movement event just next week.
>> Absolutely. And I wonder who's going to
be helping him with his speech. At this
point, it looks like it's going to be
Senator Bernie Sanders, an individual
who introduced this bill nearly a year
ago, capping credit card interest rates
by 10%. And you know who tweeted about 5
hours before Trump decided for that
truth social post? Bernie Sanders. Trump
promised to cap credit card interest
rates at 10% and stop Wall Street from
getting away with murder. Instead, he
deregulated the banks, going after Trump
for a 2024 election campaign promise.
Claudia put it so well over the weekend.
Move over taco. It's Big Mac. Midterms
are coming time.
>> Look, if you look at the moves we're
seeing this morning, to build on what
Danny said, if you're making buy now pay
later great again, there's a bit of a
problem with the policy you're
introducing.
>> Well, that means that interest rates are
going to be that much higher. And
frankly, these are going to be that much
more punitive in terms of the loans that
people take out. What these policies
actually affectuate are completely
different than what they are prescribing
to do, which is the reason why they have
been tried before and they fail every
single time. Whether or not this is
going to be the same kind of thing and
yes, midterms are coming but maybe won't
be fulfilled in some of these promises
or whether this is actually going to
gain traction remains to be seen.
>> If you can't price risk appropriately,
you'll just take less. That's ultimately
the story with the credit card
companies. If you can't price risk
appropriately, if you can't put the
right number on things, you'll just take
less. And that's what's going to happen.
Ultimately, if you go forward with this,
and obviously no one really thinks this
is going to happen this morning, but if
you did, that's what would happen. We
talk about how the average FICO score at
the likes of Bank of America and JP
Morgan is above 700. We talk about how
there are increasing number of people
who are unbanked or underbanked. Guess
why? Because increasingly, especially
with new regulations post the financial
crisis, these banks didn't want to take
that risk. And so, it left a lot of
people out of the banking system. Pick
your poison. Do you want more people to
be banked or do you want to regulate the
the level of some of these interest
rates?
>> The honest calls are going to be
interesting, aren't they? Fascinating.
Next couple of days. Can you talk to us
about the the credit card oh
>> profits you made?
>> Let me tell you about the Bank America
great again. [laughter]
>> Something like that.
>> I invested a lot.
>> Let's turn to the Middle East. Iranian
officials saying they've secured full
control over the country after mass
protest led to two weeks of upheaval and
hundreds reported killed. President
Trump set for a key briefing on
potential US involvement as soon as
tomorrow. Joining us now is former
senior US intelligence official Norman
Rule. Norman, welcome to the program,
sir. We've seen this in this country
many times over the last 10 years. This
felt different over the last week. How
different is it?
>> It's quite different. And good morning.
The current nationwide protests in Iran
continue to have reached a scale and
intensity that is unprecedented in the
history of the Islamic Republic.
Virtually every major city in town is
experiencing some form of political
protest against the government calling
for regime change, not just complaints
against a specific economic policy. And
what you have is the tactical government
uh uh efforts to contain these protests
through uh promises of economic reform
have not satisfied the protesters and
increasingly coercive and violent
responses by the government uh have not
uh ended the protests thus far. And the
result is that we've seen deaths. We've
seen hundreds of protester deaths. We've
seen as many as 40 to 50 to 100 security
force personnel be killed. And we've
seen thousands of arrests. So, we're
watching a very intensive uh uh uh
turbulent situation in Iran.
>> Normally horrific these images coming
out of Iran. What makes this protest
though different than prior protests we
saw?
We're watching basically a very
compressed situation. So uh the in the U
uh 2022 to 2023 situation for example
the number of uh of of the tragic number
of deaths for example that took place
were took place over a much longer
period of time. The number of arrests
took place over a much longer period of
time. So we're watching a compression of
this. And this is happening because the
inflation, the collapse of the currency,
the disillusion with the government, the
failed policy, the impression, it's
built upon itself since 2017. So you've
got an extraordinarily unhappy
population that fills the government
correctly. So feeling that the
government is just unable to uh to
deliver. And at the same time, you have
a government that is broken. It's trying
to uh sat it's trying to satisfy a
military that's taking a large portion
of the budget. missiles, uh regional
militias, uh uh a nuclear program that's
brought sanctions upon the government
while at the same time trying to uh uh
promise uh economic uh uh uh relief to a
population and in the end it can't
deliver and just the currency uh problem
alone is is extraordinary. So when at
the time of the nuclear deal, the
Iranian RIA was 29,500
to the dollar. uh when the recently uh
fired central bank governor took office,
it was about 920,000
to the dollar. In December, when the uh
protest began, it was 1.42 million to
the dollar. There's no reason to believe
that this collapse will not continue
further because the government is
broken.
>> Norman, overnight, uh the Iran's foreign
ministry said that there is a
communication channel between their
foreign minister and Mr. Wickoff now
open. The president told reporters that
the Iranian leaders have reached out. He
also went on to say a meeting is being
set up, but we may have to act because
of what's happening before the meeting.
How should we read the president's
comments?
>> Seriously. So, let's take a look first
at what is the likelihood that the
president will conduct a military
strike? Uh, if you look at US u uh uh
behavior and the president's actions,
there is a high likelihood of a military
strike. The president has conducted
surgical limited military action
following a series of uh social media
statements, a series of uh of promises
of action if specific behavior was not
undertaken. Uh diplomatic outreach and
military moves. A lot of this has
happened thus far and the social media
and the intensity of the president's
social media statements have increased.
We've seen a visit of the Omani foreign
minister to Iran which looked like a
message one way or the other. Now we
have the Iranian outreach. So why is
that happening? Well, that offers the
Iranians several advantages. First,
gives them a chance to tell their own
population maybe sanctions are being
lifted. So that might break the uh uh
the unrest. Unlikely, but it also might
allow the United test the United States
uh uh uh uh delay the United States
attack. I don't don't think that's going
to uh buy them much patience with the
president.
>> Norm, what could the US do with respect
to military strikes that would be
effective? I mean, how risky is this at
a time where already there is an
incredibly explosive uh feeling in the
region and previous incursions have led
to mixed results?
>> Uh, frankly be I think it'd be unwise to
give a lot of detail because the
Iranians are going to be interested in
that question as well, but US military
power is vast. The Iranians have uh no
capability to really defend against it
as we've seen in June. Um the uh press
reports uh have talked about aerial
attacks. Other tools are available and
the Iranians are very susceptible to
this. The US has uh has the means to
deliver an extraordinary punishing blow
against those units uh and personnel
that would be involved in violence
against protesters. And that's what the
president has talked about uh responding
to uh uh uh those who have committed uh
uh uh violence and uh uh vi against pro
peaceful protesters uh deaths against
peaceful protesters and we've seen an
extraordinary number of deaths in the
last uh uh weekend.
>> Norman, we already have Venezuela with
questions around who's going to lead it.
If there is some sort of strike that
does imperil the Iranian leadership, do
we have a sense of who is going to take
over and how intimately involved the US
will be with that?
I've been working uh uh the Middle East
and other issues too long to uh make
predictions on who will lead uh uh
governments in the future predicting
elections. The Iranian people uh will no
doubt choose their own leadership. I
would would say that there is a a deep
uh uh uh revolutionary guard uh network
within the country in corporations and
all aspects of the leadership. If you
were to draw upon the existing system of
uh of society of who might follow if the
existing system remains in place, it's
probably going to be drawn from that
DNA. And that's the sort of DNA that
would likely be willing to uh engage
with uh the West and with the region in
an assertive manner um uh protecting
Iranian uh equities, but it would engage
with the West.
>> Nom, appreciate your take and your
insight as always. Thank you, sir. the
former senior US intelligence official
Norman Rule and a key story on the
international stage. Let's give you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Back with us,
here's Yahihara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. [music] The Supreme Court says
it will release its next round of
decisions this Wednesday. Markets are
awaiting a ruling on President Trump's
April 2nd Liberation Day tariffs. The
court doesn't say in advance which
decisions [music] are ready for release,
only that rulings in argued cases are
possible. Meanwhile, Homeland Security
Secretary [music] Christy Gnome says
hundreds more federal agents are being
deployed to Minneapolis. The
announcement comes as thousands marched
in the city this weekend after a federal
agent [music] shot and killed a woman
during a confrontation last Wednesday. A
national debate is raging over whether
the use [music] of deadly force was
justified.
And Bob Weir, a founding member and
guitarist with the Grateful Dead, has
died at the age of 78. Weir was also a
contributing writer to key songs like
Playing in the Band and Sugar Magnolia.
According to a family statement, Weir
succumbed to underlying lung issues
after being diagnosed with cancer in
July. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. [music] Thanks for the
update. Up next on the program, turning
up the heat on the Federal Reserve. When
people are concerned about Fed
independence, when they're concerned the
Fed is going to take a structurally more
dovish view of the economy because of
this political pressure, they're also
seeing it reflected in long-term yields
going up. That [music] conversation up
next with Cassie Barrow of JP Morgan
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[music]
Here's
a flavor of things this morning. So
stocks are lower, down by 0.6% compared
to the rest of the world. Some clear
underperformance state side this
morning. On the NASDAQ, we're down by
0.9. In the bond market, this is the
bleed you're seeing at the long end of
the curve. Yields up [music] on 10, on
30s by three to four basis points, up to
41969. [music]
and it's to this morning turning up the
heat on the Federal Reserve.
>> When people are concerned about Fed
independence, when they're concerned the
Fed is going to take a structurally more
dovish view of the economy, not just in
the short term, in the long term uh
because of this political pressure.
People get worried about long-term
inflation. You're also seeing it
reflected in long-term yields going up
relative to short-term yields.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. Bond
yields pushing higher after the DOJ
subpoenaed the Federal Reserve. Worries
about the central bank's independence
reigniting the so-called sell America
trade. Joining us now to discuss is
Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan Asset
Management. Kelsey, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Story is not new. In the last year,
bonds actually had a decent year even
against that backdrop. Is there anything
new about what took place over the
weekend that changes the direction of
travel for treasuries? Well, current
certainly what happened overnight is a
bit of an escalation and we certainly
are in a bit of a difficult situation
and what I view this as is as a test of
the Fed's uh institutional credibility
uh is a test of that framework. Um but
at the same time, you know, I look at
what happened so far this year.
Typically, when you start the new year,
bonds start with big issuance. you know
that that's what we start with. We start
with uh investment grade credit,
emerging market debt, all issuing a lot
of of bonds. They did that last week.
They did that uh with fairly robust
demand coming into the market. So you
had emerging market debt uh largest week
of issuance so far uh in the first week
of the year and those books were two to
six times overs subscribed. So the
market came in looking to buy bonds,
right? There was appetite there. And up
until last night, I think the biggest
development for the bond market was
actually the announcement of the 200
billion potential buying of agency
mortgage back securities. And so now
it's this complicated situation because
on Friday you saw a 25 basis point
approximately move lower in mortgage
rates, which is a really good thing for
home affordability. And now you have
long- end yields which are rising which
may uh undo some of that progress.
>> Up until last night, we had a rangebound
bond market and think about the news of
the last 24 hours that shakes us out of
that range.
>> I mean, so far, no. It's really amazing.
You look at the 10-year yield and since
the middle of December, the range is
less than 10 basis points. So, we're
between 411 and 420. And I think when
you think about that range, it comes
down to fundamentals. And I know
fundamentals, they really feel like
they're taking a back seat today. Um to
the discussions about geopolitical risk
and um you know the the credit card
caps, all of these things. But when I
look at the fundamentals, I see three
key things. One is that growth has been
resilient. Uh two, the labor market has
been shaky and that's kept the Fed's
easing bias. And three and I think most
importantly number three is inflation
expectations have remained very benign.
And that's why in the first week of the
year as you had record bond issuance you
saw a lot of demand come in because long
and real yields are elevated. There is a
fair bit of term premium already priced
into the market and long-term inflation
expectations remain fairly benign. At a
certain point, I think John nailed it
earlier when he said it's not
necessarily going to be bond yields that
feel the effects of a real question to
Fed independence. It's going to be the
dollar because ultimately if the Fed's
not independent, they can buy all the
bonds they want and they can drive lower
end yields lower and that is actually a
pretty controlled element. Is it just a
matter of where you want to buy bonds
based on currency differentials? So I
think the dollar is one of the release
valves at least in the short term to
reflect the concerns around Fed
independence. The other one of course is
gold. Um so we had a realistic surprise
target for gold's prices for this year
of $5,000 an ounce. And that I mean to
me now seems potentially too low. Um the
amount of appreciation that you've seen
in the metals is uh truly incredible.
Now some of that appreciation is not
just a demand story but also a supply
story. So when you talk about the
treasury market that's the deepest most
liquid market in the world. It prices
everything very efficiently. In the
metals market uh you need to not only
disentangle the signal from a
fundamental perspective but also the
fact that these are much smaller markets
much more easily uh influenced by the
technicals. But I think in general um it
makes sense to me that you are seeing a
modestly weaker dollar and a uh and
higher gold prices. And I think really
what I would be watching um are some of
these uh comments that you've been
getting for Republicans uh around
the process of the Fed share
confirmation and if this escalation
in uh in this investigation around
Powell and the Fed somehow uh slows that
down um and makes that more challenging.
Um because really I see the Senate
confirmation process as one of the
biggest institutional guard rails that
protects the Fed's independence
particularly in the near term here.
>> In the meantime, you talk about all the
issuance to start the year. At what
point is there a crowding out based on
some of the big tech issuance and
elsewhere that's going to cause yields
to grind higher globally?
>> I don't think you've seen that crowding
out. um particularly when I look at the
uh demand for those books I mentioned
two to six times overs subscribed in in
EM markets for example the the debt that
they're issuing if they look in
investment grade credit um particularly
so far we haven't had a lot of tech
issuance um it's mainly been focused in
financials um but what we've been seeing
there is that deals have been able to
get done with fairly limited concessions
um and so you know so far uh so good
from that perspective the Other thing
that I would highlight, um, you know,
I've been talking to our mortgage
analysts about this move tighter in
mortgage spreads and how much further
that can go and recognizing that for
price sensitive buyers, you know,
spreads are getting pretty darn tight.
But we've now introduced a price
insensitive buyer potentially into the
mix. And the other thing that I would
highlight is that typically flows follow
returns. Last year, mortgage funds uh
mortgages in general had returns that
rivaled US high yield. So, the mortgage
index, the Bloomberg mortgage index up
around 8 and a half% that was the same
as US high yield. People are going to
see that um and it's likely that
additional flows are going to follow.
>> Stepping into the Federal Reserve's
realm of influence, actually thought the
MBS announcement had more consequences
for this so-called independence [music]
conversation than anything that's been
announced over the last 12 months.
>> Yeah, it does. the Fed get on board
especially because they've been allowing
[music] some of these bond holdings to
uh run off.
>> Kelsey, good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Cassie Barrow of JP Morgan
Asset Management. Things can change.
That's the lesson of 2026 so far. They
could change in 5 minutes. It's a
[music] year that's moving at 200 miles
an hour. Up next on the program, Russ
Brownback of Black Rockck, Henry Trees
of Vader Partners, the federal housing
finance director, Bill Py, and Norian
[music] Rabini.
The economy is largely fine. The
tailwinds are stacked. We're still
watching some of this macro weakness. We
actually think the economy is in a very
good place.
>> This just doesn't look like the typical
business cycle.
>> If you know you see this [music]
broadening in consumption that can kind
of be the new story in 2026.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg survived starts right now and
[music] your scores look like this.
Pulling back from alltime highs on the
S&P 500 following a two-day win streak
going into the [music] weekend. We're
down by 0.6% this Monday morning. On the
NASDAQ, we're down by 0.8. Lot of you
turning to the bond market. Let's do the
same. Switch up the board in fixed
income twos, 10, 30s. The focus of the
long end of the curve where yields
[music] are bleeding higher. up by three
basis points on tens, up by four to five
on 30s with central [music] bank
independence very much in focus
>> because Fed chair Jay Powell is putting
it in focus. [music] Let's be clear. He
said he reported uh that the Federal
Reserve received a subpoena, a sort of a
charge over what happened with respect
to his [music] testimony regarding the
renovations of two buildings. He said
that the threat of of criminal
consequence here has nothing to do with
his [music] testimony or the
renovations. He says it has to do with
their policy of setting interest rates.
He then went on to say this, "Public
service sometimes requires standing firm
in the face of [music] threats. I will
continue to do the job the Senate
confirming to do with the integrity of
and commitment to serving the American
people." Does this indicate a potential
digging in of the heels that could go
longer [music] than his Fed
chairmanship? which is why everyone is
saying and Neil Dada last night
immediately [music] on Twitter is saying
the odds of Powell sticking around to
serve out his term as governor not chair
which is up in a few months as governor
have increased and he's up for governor
the end of January of 2028 key right now
is everyone's focus on the Senate
Banking [music] Committee senior member
of that committee Senator Tom Tillis
came out swiftly within moments saying I
will oppose the confirmation of any
nominee for the Fed including the
upcoming Fed chair vacancy [music]
until this legal matter is fully
resolved. So these are a lot of
unintended consequences [music] for this
administration.
>> If you believe last night was the end of
central bank independence, this is not
the market you'd expect to see Monday
morning. Yes, directionally [music]
we're seeing equities down, the dollar
weaker, and bond yields higher, but
these are very small moves. And this is
a market that stood up to the [music]
story for the much part best part of the
last 12 months. And my question this
morning would be how much has changed
overnight? Has this story materially
changed? And if so, this market is very
offsite. But at the moment, as has been
the case for the last 12 months, [music]
inflation expectations have been very
well anchored and the faith in central
bank independence has been maintained.
Has that changed this week?
>> The biggest change is potentially push
back from Republicans. You're mentioning
uh North Carolina's Tom Tillis. There
[music] are others as well who have come
out and said this makes them very
concerned about who they uh pass through
to the broader committee to vote on in
terms of [music] the next Fed chair any
other Fed appointees because a lot of
people in Congress understand the
importance of [music] an independent Fed
independent Federal Reserve. Now some of
the corrective measures come into focus
but there is a question who is behind
this and whether the administration
really wants to see some sort of
criminal prosecution of Feder J. Powell
>> this week is going to be fun. Lots
coming up tomorrow morning. Inflation
data and bank is [music] kicking off as
well. You hear from JP Morgan, numbers
from Delta as well. You hear from Bank
of America, W City, [music] Goldman,
Morgan Stanley. All of those guys are
going to be reporting through the week.
The pressure on these guys gets a little
bit more interesting with the pressure
building on interest rate costs for
credit card issuers. [music] And I
wonder what that sounds like on the
earnings call as some of these players
over the next few days. President Trump
wanting to cap all uh credit card
expenses at 10% interest rates versus
the 20 to 30% that are currently
charged. This comes as a lot of banks
have been firing on all cylinders are
going to be reporting good profits. Real
question of whether they're going to try
to assuage some of the concerns coming
from the White House with this populist
overtone by maybe saying we're going to
invest more [music] in some of the uh
sort of sustainable aspects and the
military aspects of the United States.
[music]
We believe that we're making America
great again. I mean, just look for the
rhetoric to change around this.
>> I think it's important to note that the
president said this was effective
January 20th. That's in a [music] week
and a day's time. The issue is, and he
said this last night, that they need to
follow the law. There is no law. There
is a bill circulating in the Senate and
the House of Representatives. And I
think it's important to note this bill
stems from the populist wings of both
parties. [music]
It stems from Senator Bernie Sanders and
Josh Holly. And an individual who
tweeted at the president before the
president decided to come out with this
[music] policy goal he has was none
other than Bernie Sanders. And my phone
blew up and people said to me and people
[music] on Wall Street people on Wall
Street Amry were worried about Zoron.
What do you have now?
>> This is just the last week, just the
last [music] week. You've had credit
card companies hit on capping fees. Home
builders have been hit about curbing
investment. And then you've also had
defense companies whips [music] on
capital returns. And that is just the
last week. and I'm leaving about five
different things off.
>> As we're talking, I just thinking, I've
got a terrible headache. It's getting
worse and worse as they try to put it
all together. And it's so funny as we
talk to people, it's as if people are
stammering to try to keep up and figure
out what exactly remains the same. And
it turns out much of what their
investment thesis [music] is remains the
same. So, at what point is it noise and
at what point is it signal?
>> Constructive into year end looking for
7750. Exactly. It's usually how the
conversation goes.
>> Yeah, I know who that is.
>> Equity futures right now, the S&P 500
negative by 0.6%. There's about five
different people. That's true. That's
true. Fair enough. Gary,
>> coming up this [laughter] hour, we catch
up with Russ Brown back at Black Rockck
as a new threat to Fed independent
shakes markets. Henry Trace of Vader
Partners joins us as President Trump
calls for a cap on credit card interest
rates. And Nura Rabini forecasting a
thriving US economy through 2030. We
begin this out with the Justice
Department setting up a legal fight at
the Federal Reserve.
>> No one, certainly not the chair of the
Federal Reserve, is above the law. But
this unprecedented action should be seen
in the broader context of the
administration's threats and ongoing
pressure. The threat of criminal charges
is a consequence of the Federal Reserve
setting interest rates based on our best
assessment of what will serve the public
rather than following the preferences of
the president.
>> Joining us now to discuss a man who's
tracked this institution for decades,
Mike McKe. Mike McKe, that is a clear
escalation overnight
>> and an extraordinary one. The idea that
the Fed chair would come out and accuse
the administration of essentially
extortion is something that has never
been done before and I've never seen
anything along the lines of Powell's
open attack on the president last
evening. But then this is a very unusual
time. It's important to remember that
Pal has not been indicted for anything.
This is a criminal subpoena from the DC
US attorney, who is an ally of the
president, asking for documents on the
Fed's renovations of two buildings on
its campus. Uh we saw Bill Py, the FHFA
head a couple of months ago, argue that
Powell lied about those renovations when
he testified to Congress. But so far, no
charges. We'll have to see how far this
goes. It has hit the markets hard at
least this morning for uh the time being
although they may have a bit of a taco
trade here but you've got uh Krishna
Guha from Evercore saying we're stunned
by this deeply disturbing development
which came out of the blue. It looks as
if the administration and the central
bank are now in open war. And then the
folks at Brown Brothers Haramman this
morning saying these actions threaten
the Fed's inflation fighting credibility
and can accelerate the dollar's
declining role as the primary reserve
currency. So a lot at stake here even if
the markets are uh sort of focused on
this for a bit of time and then move on
to the next thing. Where do we go from
here? Well the big question is will
there be an indictment? We saw that the
administration couldn't get indictments
to stick for Jim Comey and Leticia
James. This may be uh something similar.
The Tillis opposition freezes the
chair's nomination because there's a
1311 split between Democrats and
Republicans. So, one Republican
defecting leaves the committee
deadlocked and the nomination, whoever
it is, doesn't go forward. Pal's
chairmanship will end in May as you guys
were talking about, but he can stay on
as a governor. And if he remains as
governor, he could remain in the absence
of anyone else as chairman of the open
market committee that sets interest rate
policy. They get to pick their own chair
and one would assume they would rally
round uh J. Pal under these
circumstances.
>> Mike McKe with the latest. Mike, thank
you, sir. We'll come back to you a
little bit later on this morning. Here's
a view on Wall Street right now. So
stocks are lower, bond yields are
higher, the dollar's weaker. Fed
independence very much in focus. Russ
Brownback of Black Rockck joins us
around the table to discuss. Russ, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Our good friend Rick Reed would say the
market can only focus on the shark
closest to the boat. That used to make
sense to me. There are so many different
sharks now every 5 minutes. I don't know
what to focus on. What should we focus
on?
>> So in in your leadin, you were talking
about all the different headlines. So
many over the last 10 days, you couldn't
even remember them all. Um and yet let's
look at the markets uh and where they
sit this morning. The tender notes at
419. It's a great statistic for you. End
of Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4 last year. Closing
yield 421, 423, 415, 417.
So the markets, I think, have correctly,
you know, gravitated to the positive
fundamentals, uh which is a
disinflationary boom that's taking place
in the economy. Uh, and I think the
markets until there's such time as there
actually is real, you know, uh, fire
where there's smoke will continue to do
so.
>> Are you saying just ignore all of the
headlines or is there something else
taking hold under the surface that you
can see maybe in gold and silver and the
dollar and maybe that's coming out
through channels aside from just the
benchmark yields?
>> Yeah. So, you know, it's the golden age
of income. It's underpinned by resilient
uh uh dynamic fundamentals in the US
economy and a disinflationary boom. And
those are very powerful transcendent
forces. And I think markets are correct
to focus on those. If something comes
along that is news newsworthy that can
alter that fundamental path, markets
will react.
>> At a certain point, I do wonder if there
is a signal here about a focus on
affordability and in a focus on using
the government's balance sheet and the
government's heft to really enact
populist policies. At what point does
that make you think okay at some point
maybe people will start caring about the
deficit again considering the fact that
if there is this much pressure on
affordability how much can really uh
tariffs go up how much really can they
shrink the deficit
>> y so you know listen I think uh one of
the ways that you can sort of outrun
deficits is with fast nominal growth the
story that's not told let's go back to
kind of the middle of last year the
conventional wisdom around growth uh
prospects for 2025 we're kind of three
and a half three and a half nominal.
Okay, we're going to end up at five and
a half nominal. So 200 extra basis
points of N GDP is $600 billion. Okay,
so that transcends the discussion about
you know the marginal uh tariff uh
revenue and the like. So outrunning the
deficit, running the economy hot has
actually been what's happened over the
last four years and will will likely
happen again in 2026.
>> What's going on overnight with the
Federal Reserve? Does it change your
thinking about who Trump will nominate
as the next Fed chair?
>> Um, you know, I'm not going to get into
a discussion about uh the specific
personnel. I think the Fed has really,
quite frankly, done a terrific uh job in
terms of being pragmatic, enabling uh
rate cuts at a time when the spot
inflation levels uh are above, you know,
their long-term target. The precedent
for that is the early 1990s. Another
amazing statistic, 80 consecutive months
in the early 90s where you didn't have a
core inflation reading uh on a trailing
12-month basis at or below 2%, the Fed
cut uh the funds rate 400 basis points
cumulatively over that time. I think
that's what's taking place today. And I
think the data as it uh evolves over the
course of the next year will enable more
of that. Norabin is going to join us
later this hour and he's going to say
something very similar to what you're
saying. this economy can withstand some
of the shocks that we're discussing
every single day. What is it about this
economy, this market, our institutions
in America that help us stand up to some
of these shocks?
>> I think it's dynamism, resiliency, it's
a culture of innovation. Um, and I think
you know what we will be talking about
as this year progresses is that you know
the growth potential, the speed limit on
the US economy is is inflecting higher.
And so if you're going to have 2 and a
half% real growth but the growth
potential is 3%. You're actually
creating slack in an economy. And so
that's in an and I think uh professor
Rubini will probably suggest that that
growth potential is moving higher still.
And I I'm a productivity optimist.
>> When you talk about the speed limit, are
you suggesting also that we can run this
economy hot that we can get loads of
growth without the corresponding
inflation?
>> So you know running the economy hot
would actually be running it above the
the growth potential. I would argue
that, you know, the the the growth has
been accelerating this year, but it's
not keeping up with how fast
productivity is pushing potential.
That's a very virtuous outcome. Russ,
it's good to see you. Thanks for being
here. Russ Brownback there of Black
Rockck. I imagine you hear something
very similar from Noran Rabini later
this hour. Now, those of you thinking
Noran Rabini are thinking terrible
growth figures, super super bearish.
>> It's not what you're going to get a
little bit later this hour. He is very
bullish on growth going forward from
here. and he sees the US as the
epicenter of that with productivity and
the productivity boom that we've started
to see in some of the data really
continuing and this is the this is the
hope this is the reason why you have
seen people pour into the United States
despite some of the concerns around
policy uncertainty
>> concerns about Fed independence this
morning equities down just 0.6%. Let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief
with more here's Yahihara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. A group of European nations is
discussing plans to boost their [music]
military presence in Greenland. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, the UK and
Germany are leading the talks with
Berlin proposing a joint NATO [music]
mission to bolster Arctic security.
President Trump saying the US must take
Greenland because if it does not, Russia
or China will. Meanwhile, Venezuela
releasing political prisoners over the
weekend, including a member of
opposition leader Maria Karina Machado's
party. The move coming after authorities
said a significant number of prisoners
would [music] be released as a quote
gesture of peace. The US may remove
Venezuelan sanctions as early as this
week to help oil sales. And Indonesia
and Malaysia are the first countries to
ban Elon Musk's [music] Gro AI over its
generation of sexual content.
Indonesia's Minister Ministry of
Communications and Digital Affairs
[music] imposed a temporary ban on
Saturday aimed at protecting citizens
from faked pornographic content. [music]
They say Malaysia's internet regulator
then followed. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Yihara in about 30
minutes time. That Russ Brownback stat
just a moment ago made me go to the
Bloomberg terminal just to look not
because I didn't believe you but just
seeing that quarter end 420 first
quarter second quarter 423 third 415
fourth 417 how well anchored that
10-year maturity has been in the bond
market. [music] Amazing.
>> It's been the stability that a lot of
people keep pointing to and saying look
for all of the concerns the bond markets
remain imbalanced and actually could be
biased to going lower through the
remainder of this year. 41930
this morning. [music] Up next, a major
affordability push.
>> I want a cap on credit card interest
rates because, you know, some of them
are 28 almost 30%. No way. I We're
putting a one-year cap at 10% and that's
it.
>> A conversation [music] up next with
Henry Trees of Vader Partners live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
>> [music]
>> Stocks are down this morning by 0.5% on
the S&P 500, negative by 0.8 on the
NASDAQ coming off alltime highs Friday
at the close. Just a slight softness
this morning off the back of this
Federal Reserve independence concern
that really ignited over the weekend
once again [music] in the bond market.
T's 1030 seen that leakage at the long
end of the curve. 10-year bond yield
tied by three basis points. 30s up by
four. [music] under Svenus this morning,
a major push for affordability.
>> I want a cap on credit card interest
rates because, you know, some of them
are 28 almost 30%. And people out there,
you know, they're working and they have
no idea that they're paying 30%. No way.
We're putting a one-year cap at 10%. And
that's it. They really they've really
abused the public. The credit card
companies have totally abused. I'm not
going to let it happen.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump doubling down on
his call for a cap on credit card
interest rates, his latest effort to
address the cost of living crisis ahead
of midterm elections later this year.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
from Washington for more. Tyler, the
president's own words, "No way. We're
putting a one-year cap at 10% and that's
it." Is that it?
>> Well, John, at this point, we're going
to have to see what Congress ultimately
takes up because he's going to need them
in order to get this done. Though it is
worth mentioning that credit card rates
have become a target on both sides of
the aisle. Senator Bernie Sanders last
year teamed up with Senator Josh Holly,
a Republican from Missouri, putting
forward a bill that would propose a 10%
rate. Though at the moment that hasn't
gone anywhere, there might now be some
renewed pressure behind it to get it
done. And while not the same thing, I
will point out that then Senator JD
Vance once teamed up with Senator
Elizabeth Warren on a bill that would
cap credit card swipe fees. So there
really might be an appetite, though it
is hard to imagine that anything's going
to get through by the president's
January 20th deadline. That means the
onus is now going to be on the companies
to do this voluntarily. Though it is
worth pointing out President Trump
didn't outline how these lenders would
be breaking the law if they don't
comply. But there's been some common
themes here, as you mentioned, from
President Trump's recent policy
announcements over the past week that
have really moved stocks across the
board, including his proposal to ban
institutional investors from buying
single family homes. And one is yes this
focus on affordability but the second is
that it requires congress but also some
of these ideas do have that support from
progressives. Now we will point out that
banks have long said that there needs to
be a high rate because of the inability
to cushion losses and say cap could mean
millions of Americans are could be on uh
the brink of losing access to credit. So
it's something to watch closely John how
this ultimately involves. But keep in
mind, President Trump did propose this
on the campaign trail and as we get
closer to the State of the Union and we
get closer to the potential of a second
reconciliation package. I would expect
these proposals to come up a lot more
frequently.
>> Tyler Kendall in Washington. Tyler,
thank you. To build on this
conversation, Henry Trees of Vader
Partners. Henrietta, welcome. Let's just
start here because there's a lot to get
through. So, the push to cap interest
rates on credit cards. How much support
does this have down in Washington?
>> Uh, it's got a lot of support. You know,
Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders love
it, but I've got two words for anybody
expecting legislation like this to pass.
Chuck Grassley, uh, he has backed
opposing this legislation with the bank
lobbies since the great financial
crisis. And honestly, if you close your
eyes and listen to what the president's
saying, it sounds a lot like Dick Durban
on the Senate floor talking about swipe
fees. Uh, this is something that needs
legislation. One-year policy is not how
Congress likes to act. And I would just
say as always, count the votes. You got
a one seat majority in the House of
Representatives, a Senate that is
totally dominated by the War Powers
Resolution, Federal Reserve nominations,
and now obviously a government shutdown
pending on January 30th. You're not
moving legislation like this.
>> Well, let's talk about the Federal
Reserve. I'm sure you've seen the news
on the subpoena delivered to the Fed and
Jay Powell's response and Senator Tom
Tillis saying he's going to impose the
confirmation of any nominees for the
Fed, including the upcoming Fed chair
vacancy until legal legal matter is
fully resolved. Where does this leave
the rest of the Republicans? Do you
think Henrietta in the Senate?
>> You know, as a former Senate staffer, I
would say there's some really cool stuff
that's been happening on the Senate
side. You saw five Republicans buck the
president on the war powers resolution
last week. Last year, four discharge
petitions passed in the House of
Representatives, which is usually
something you never see. We are seeing
um contention rise in the Republican
ranks on ACA subsidies, defense
spending, these credit card bills um and
the general affordability narrative. The
party is not going along in lock step.
And what happens really in DC is the
president gets one shot on goal. You got
the one big beautiful bill that passed
on the 4th of July and that is it. Now
we're working with executive actions
only. The best thing the president can
do is turn his attention to the tariffs.
let the Supreme Court take them off on
Wednesday hopefully and then leave them
off. That is what he's going to be able
to accomplish is job owning and
executive action. Legislation is not
realistic in 2026.
>> Well, he's going to be able to appoint a
new Federal Reserve chairman though. And
when it comes to that, do you think
individuals like Senator Tillis are
going to have maybe a little bit more
influence now on this Oval Office?
>> Yeah, absolutely. Senator Tillis and one
of the things we talked about in the
leadup to President Trump winning the
election was obviously what he's going
to do with Powell. This has been going
on for over a year now. This narrative
around him firing Powell and this is his
second major attempt here. And one of
the things that you can see in the
Senate is if if the Republican
conference wants to exert any of their
authority, Mitch McConnell can hold this
up. John Thun can hold this up. Senator
Tillis obviously is prepared to. Lisa
Marowsky, Susan Collins, who's up for a
very tough reelect in Maine. There are
other members who are going to want to
run for president in 2028. Josh Holly,
Todd Young. Those members have all the
power in the world to stop this fiscal
dominance on the Fed and they're going
to be rewarded by the street if they do
so and they know that.
>> Henrietta, how much push back is there
actually from Republican congressman to
President Trump? Is this just directly
correlated to his popularity ratings and
they're just sort of watching that and
deciding whether or not to go along with
what he says or to try to carve somewhat
of a different uh profile?
>> It's a good question. It's different for
each topic. Um, you would have thought
that the defense sector was an area
where he'd be really safe. But look at
the push back that $1 and a half
trillion dollars in defense spending has
gotten. Look at the push back to the war
powers resolution. Even that stuff's not
safe. It's my view that the president is
already in lame duck territory. There
are some members who have to run as
close as possible to the president,
mostly because he's a vote turnout
machine. The Republican party and the
Democratic party are not popular. Donald
Trump is popular with his voters and
they turn out to vote. going into a
midterm, you got to rely on independents
and know that you're going to be dealing
with a Democratic voter base that's
going to come out all day, every day to
vote early and often. And that's what
they've got to run against. So Trump is
effective in certain districts on
certain topics. But everywhere else, the
party's got to run away from his
tariffs, away from price increases, and
everything except for gas prices. That's
a really tough dynamic, and we're
already in the primary and general
election season for November.
>> It's January 12th. It's a long year
ahead of us. Hey Henrietta, thank you.
Hen tra there at Vader Partners on the
latest. It's going to be a long long
year and a lot of ideas being thrown
against the wall.
>> Ideas. Key word ideas. So what comes to
fruition and how much can the market
really look past because at some point
one of these ideas could gain traction,
right? I mean we did get tariffs. So
there's a real question here about uh
whether there is some signal here. I
have a very long list of what's already
happened for 2026. A lot of these have
echoes of the campaign trail of 2024.
The only one I think that is actually
happening is directing the FHFA to buy
[music] more mortgage back securities.
But how much is that now going against
what's going on in the bond market
because of the push to get Jay Powell
out?
>> We can talk about that next. Coming up
on the program, we'll catch up with the
Federal Housing Director Bill Pulsey.
Reportedly, a key force behind the Fed
subpoenas. Plus, Danny has your morning
movers.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Busy morning already about 2 hours away
from the open and bad equity futures
negative by let's call it 0.5% on the
S&P 500. On the NASDAQ we're down by
0.8. [music]
Fed independence very much in focus but
in the bond market not seeing major
moves. Check out the 10ear still around
420. [music] Kind of been pinned there
over the past few days. Yields up by
three basis points on 10s on 30s up by
four to 485 [music] and in the FX market
just seen that dollar weakness seen a
fair bit of that in G10 this morning
weaker against every single [music]
major currency the euro positive by 4/10
of 1% Lisa 11683
>> yeah this has been the release valve as
we were talking about [music] earlier
you can also see it when it comes to
precious metals a question though of how
much more this has to go about whether
this really is about the United States
or whether just globally you're seeing
uh debt increased to such a degree that
central banks are facing an [music]
increasingly difficult quagmire of
keeping rates low. At the same time, the
interest expenses [music] are going up
pretty significantly.
>> That Fed meeting at the end of this
month, before we get there, another read
on the economy. You'll hear that from
the big banks on Wall Street. Look out
for that tomorrow. JP Morgan kicking
things off tomorrow morning. Also 8:30
Eastern time, a read on inflation.
[music] Before we get to all of that,
lots of stocks to talk about. Morning
movers available right now with Danny
Burger. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. And we start this morning
much how we started last week. movers
based on policy or at least desired
policy coming out of the White House.
Credit card companies, I showed you them
the last hour. We've been talking about
them all morning, have [music] been
falling in the pre-market trade after
Trump saying that credit card companies
would need to cap interest rates at 10%
or be in violation of the law come
January 20th. Some [music] questions
about whether that can actually be
implemented, but one of the consequences
I wanted to show you what the buy now
pay later firms like a firm like CLA are
doing this morning. By the way, the CLA
CEO coming out in support of that policy
this morning. Uh Mike May of Wells Fargo
saying they would be the beneficiaries
because capping rates would mean credit
cards take on less risky customers and
those customers flock [music] to buy now
pay later. Another company moving this
morning based on the president's words
is Exxon. Shares down 1% with President
Trump saying he would be inclined to
exclude Exxon from any rebuild in
Venezuela after the CEO Darren Woods
saying at that conference of oil
executives that Venezuela would be
uninvestable, throwing some skepticism
onto the desire to go in there and
rebuild. Finally, Lululemon out with an
update and it was a beat for their first
first quarter. So much negativity around
Lulu. Shares were up more than 1%. They
pair some of those gains just up a third
of a percent. But it does uh represent
some positivity especially for the
holiday quarter that they did get good
sales and maybe some relief over Elliot
Management, the activist investors that
they are facing. John,
>> they had a tough year. That's for sure.
Danny, thank you. Thanks for the update.
On our radar this morning, one of our
top stories, Federal Reserve Chair Jay
Pal saying the central bank has been
served grand jury subpoenas from the
Justice Department. Pal claiming the
threat of criminal charges are pretext
to undermine Fed independence.
Elsewhere, the president calling for a
one-year cap on credit card interest
rates at 10%. Trump adding the companies
will be in violation of the law if they
do not comply by his January 20th
deadline. And finally, the president
looking at potential responses to deadly
protests in Iran, including military
strikes and sanctions.
>> We're looking at it very seriously. The
military is looking at it and uh we're
looking at some very strong options.
We'll make a determination.
>> The Wall Street Journal reporting the
president is meeting with senior
administration officials tomorrow about
US involvement. So, if the president
says that he is going to go and help the
Iranians and he's looking at potential
options, it's no wonder to me that he's
going to be meeting with his team. I
think what was interesting overnight is
the president saying that a meeting is
being set up with the Iranians, but he
may take action beforehand and then the
Iranians actually responded and saying
there is communication between the
Iranian foreign minister and Steve
Wickoff. Messages are exchanged whenever
needed. So potentially the Iranian
regime is really feeling the heat from
these protesters, horrific scenes coming
out of Iran and potentially are looking
for an off-ramp with this
administration.
>> Some big questions coming from the
meeting tomorrow with President Trump.
Number one, is the US willing to put
boots in the ground because so far we
haven't necessarily mobilized people to
go over there to protect uh some of the
troops that are currently in the region
as well as to back up uh any additional
uh forces. whether this is going to be
cyber, whether this is going to be
militar military and then third of all,
who will be the replacement to any kind
of leadership change in Iran and how
intimately involved will the United
States be with that?
>> You've tracked this country for a while,
a number of years. You see things like
this develop in Iran, small uprisings
and then they quickly end. Does this
feel different to you?
>> This does feel a little bit different.
Norman Ro was talking about how this is
kind of similar and he is right to 2022,
2023. The reason why this feels
different is also because President
Trump has already taken decisive action
on Iran's nuclear facilities in June and
he's saying he's willing to do so again
off the heels of going into Venezuela
and doing something that was on no one's
bingo card this year which is capturing
their leader. So potentially there's
more impetus. Also, you see a lot of
individuals talking about what's going
on inside Iran, and I haven't been there
in a decade, but you do feel like there
are more people who are there because it
helps them at home and their pocketbook,
less so because of ideology. So,
potentially there has been a shift
within the younger generation that is
joining the regime.
>> We'll keep tracking this story here at
Bloomberg Worldwide. Turning back to the
Federal Reserve sources telling us our
colleagues here at Bloomberg that a
driving force behind the DOJ's decision
to subpoena the central bank is the
Federal Housing Finance Agency director
Bill Py. Director PY has been busy over
the last week. Some purchases of MBS in
focus as well. Director PY, welcome to
the program, sir. You are cited in our
story this morning. Just wanted to give
the opportunity to respond to it. Bill,
what was your role in the developments
over the weekend?
>> The DOJ is outside of my purview. This
is out of my purview. I don't know
anything about it and I would defer you
to the DOJ.
>> Bill, you haven't been shy of sharing
your thoughts on the Federal Reserve
before, particularly over the last 12
months. You were thought that the
chairman would ultimately resign. He's
standing firm. Do you think this push
against the Federal Reserve is actually
leading to unintended consequences and
leading this Fed to dig in?
>> My main focus, John, has been on
reducing mortgage rates to the extent
that we can do it and increasing housing
affordability. President Trump announced
a huge thing last week when he decided
that he was going to ban institutions
from buying homes. Basically, the
concept is that people should be living
in homes, not corporations. You know, we
have a supply problem in this country
and obviously we're working on the
demand side of things because in some
cases, affordability has gotten so tough
that people don't even want to buy a
home because of what Joe Biden did. And
so, we're reversing that. That's what
we're focused on. We had a huge one-two
punch last week. You saw mortgage rates
move 25 basis points lower on the news
that Fanny and Freddy have started to
undergo a $200 billion mortgage bond buy
and um I think you're going to see some
very exciting things come out of Davos
with regard to the president on housing
in a couple in a week.
>> Director Paul, you were with the
president this weekend I believe
traveling with him on Air Force One from
Washington to Palm Beach. Did you talk
about the Federal Reserve with him this
weekend?
>> Obviously I would never talk about
anything that the president and I talk
about. I would say this that the
president is laser focused on housing
affordability and reversing what has
happened these last four years. You look
at the average mortgage payment under
Joe Biden, it's skyrocketed compared to
what it was under President Trump's
first term. We are focused on bringing
down not only the mortgage rates but
also the day-to-day cost in upkeeping
homes, which has to do with, you know,
whether it be your ongoing expenses,
mortgage insurance, etc. There are so
many pieces to the cost puzzle that at
the FHFA, US Federal Housing, we are
working to reduce uh the cost burden
that Americans have.
>> I know that you've seen the report from
our colleagues. I've also got calls last
night about this subpoena handed to the
Fed and was told that you were part of
it pulling together report that then
went to the DOJ. I just wanted to go a
sense from you. Did the president know
this was coming? The Treasury Secretary
know this was coming? Have you had any
of these conversations? Again, on that
matter, I'd refer you to the Department
of Justice.
>> Okay. Well, we'll wait to hear from the
Department of Justice. When it goes back
to the mortgage back securities that you
have been talking about, you already
been purchasing about [clears throat]
north of $230 billion of them last year.
There is a cap. Do you expect to reach
that cap this year?
>> I think all options are on the table.
President Trump is a president who keeps
all options on the table. We announced a
historic $200 billion buyback of
mortgage bonds. This is a huge deal and
you know we'll keep all options on the
table. Look, we're doing our part at
Fanny and Freddy. Most presidents didn't
even know Fanny and Freddy existed.
Obviously, your community and Bloomberg
and all of us in the private sector, we
know the importance of Fanny and Freddy.
But for the average day American, they
don't understand because the presidents
haven't made it a priority. The average
Americans haven't understood that
presidents had this authority until
President Trump found this authority,
which is basically to utilize these
companies to be companies. Imagine that.
get people to show up back to work. You
know, we had 16,000 people. We have
16,000 people at the two companies. When
I when I showed up on the scene and
President Trump came into office, they
were all working from home. We'd go to
these big buildings, air conditioning
spewing everywhere, spending $50 million
a year on leases. Nobody was in these
buildings. So, we have turned around
Fanny and Freddy. They tried to get
President Trump to sell the companies
for the two companies together for
hundred billion. I think the valuation
of the companies is anywhere between 500
billion and some say up to a trillion
dollars.
>> A lot of people are hoping that there is
some sort of uh initial public offering
of those companies. Are you preparing
them for that at some point later this
year or next year?
>> We are fully prepared to do whatever the
president would like us to do on that
matter. Uh we have been getting
prepared. We are prepared just like we
are with the institutional home buying
ban. Uh just like we are with
homebuilders. We have a full set of
things to do and once the president
decides what to do, we go about
executing them.
>> Director PY, a lot of people on Wall
Street were pretty excited actually
about your purchases of MBS of mortgage
back securities and saying that this
seems like it should be something that
would uh bring down spreads. They were
less excited about the idea of
preventing institutions from buying
single family homes, saying that it
really wasn't based in uh economics,
considering that in certain regions in
the country, there's actually a glut of
houses. that this is not because of
institutions that account for a
relatively small portion of overall
buyers. What do you say back about the
economic fundamentals behind this type
of proposal and why it would bring down
affordability and inc and increase the
supply of houses which is the ultimate
issue that a lot of people say.
>> Well, it just makes economic sense. You
talk about supply. I mean, you kind of
gave me a narrative there, but if you
look at the economic supply of things,
the fact is you have, you know, big
corporations buying using long-term
paper, using their balance sheets to
scoop up homes in a supply shortage, as
we call it, and they're in some cases
buying these homes for 20, 30, 40% less
than Americans are doing it. You know,
President Trump was elected with a very,
very popular mandate. You know,
sometimes people don't remember because
it was a year ago, but it was a
landslide victory and he was given a
mandate to reverse these last four years
of crazy inflation that happened under
Joe Biden. And so, I think it's very
appropriate that we're doing everything
that we can to reduce housing costs. And
we're going to keep doing it, whether
it's the institutional ban on buying,
looking at all of the things that go
into a home and owning a home. Americans
need to own homes in this country, and
we're committed to restoring that.
Director PY, did you study this in terms
of the supply demand dynamic and whether
it actually would uh reduce the uh cost
of houses for individuals? Should there
be a ban on single family housing uh in
on institutions buying single family
homes? Because a lot of people in the
markets who have supported President
Trump's policies, I'm thinking of Neil
Duna in particular came out and said
this is faulty economics.
>> Well, of course I've studied it. I've
studied it my whole life. I mean, I grew
up in the housing business. I grew up in
the building business. I was on the
board of PY Homes for 4 years. I
understand what institutional buying
does. It's very powerful. I understand
why Wall Street might not like it. But
we serve the American people. We don't
serve Wall Street. And President Trump
is laser focused on doing the right
thing, no matter who it affects in terms
of their pocketbooks at the Wall Street
level. He is focused, laser focused on
on action, not talk. Like so many of
these Democrats like Elizabeth Warren,
you know, for years she would talk
about, oh, institutional buying. She
didn't do anything. Joe Biden didn't do
anything about it. President Trump is
doing something about it.
>> Elizabeth Warren wanted to see an effort
like this. Do you think the president is
taking cues from some of the more uh
populist wings of the Democratic party?
>> No. I think Elizabeth Warren's going to
have to take cues from us or she's going
to continue to look like a fraud because
she says all these things and then she
does nothing about it. You know,
President Trump, he gets things done. He
said, "Look, we're going to ban
institutional buying and then we're
going about both on an executive action
front as well as codifying it in
legislation." I mean, the amount of
momentum that we've had at the
legislative level from uh you know,
different Congress people. I was at the
at the financial services committee the
other night. People were ecstatic about
this. I also talked with multiple US
senators, many who are vying to uh
sponsor the legislation. So, this is a
very big deal and I think it's going to
happen.
>> Is the president going to declare a
housing emergency in the United States?
That's entirely up to the president. I
can tell you this, he is treating it
with great urgency. He understands real
estate very well. He understands the
importance of keeping home prices up. He
understands this issue very well and
we're working very well together.
Secretary Turner, Secretary Bessant,
Secretary Lutnik, the Vice President,
Susie Wilds. This is an all hands
effort. James Blair in the White House.
I mean, this is an all hands effort to
reduce the cost of home ownership and
get people, not corporations, back in
homes.
>> We look forward to seeing what comes of
that effort. Director Pauly, we
appreciate your time this morning, sir.
Thank you very much. The Federal Housing
Director Bill PY there of the Federal
Reserve kind of, but much more on what's
going to happen with housing in this
country.
>> Yeah, after the announcement of buying
$200 billion of mortgage back
securities, which a lot of people credit
uh for reducing mortgage yields on
Friday, a real question though about
further involvements and exactly what a
proposal to ban institutional buying of
single family homes would actually do to
prices.
>> And the president said he's going to
talk about this at Davos. We know for
months that they were talking about
maybe declaring an emergency and maybe
he comes out at Davos and does that.
What I thought was interesting said all
options are on the table when it comes
to the cap. Well, the cap was put in
place after the financial crisis. So
potentially 200 billion the president
directing them to buy more. Actually
that might just go up
>> and I know that the director of housing
didn't want to engage in the topic and I
understand why but the Federal Reserve
is working against this effort with
what's happening with the balance sheet
over at the Fed and that's a
conversation we've got to have. They're
allowing mortgage related debt to roll
off their balance sheet and they're not
repurchasing it. Are they going to
participate by buying mortgage related
bonds with a new leader at the Federal
Reserve? That could ultimately be one
particular interest of uh director pies.
Director PY has also been aggressive in
investigating the mortgages of some of
the Fed governors. So there is a real
question here about the intimacy uh
between these two branches. And I know
he didn't want to comment on it, but my
reporting last night from phone calls
matches what Slaya Mosen, Nancy Cook
have, that he was a driving force, a
leader of this when it comes to putting
together report getting it to the DOJ
about Jay Powell and what is going on
with the remodeling at the Fed.
>> We'll come back to this a little bit
later this morning. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara with
more. Hey yra.
>> Hi [music] John. President Donald Trump
says he's inclined to exclude Exxon from
his push for US majors [music] to re
rebuild Venezuela's oil industry.
Trump's comments coming after Exxon CEO
described Venezuela as quote
uninvestable at a meeting at the White
House with other [music] oil executives.
Meanwhile, Walmart shares are rising 2
and a half% in the pre-market. The
retail [music] giant is getting ready to
join the NASDAQ 100 index, replacing
Astroenica. The changes are set to take
effect [music] before the market opens
on January 20th. Walmart also announcing
in the last 24 hours it's [music]
partnering with Alphabet to offer AI
enhanced shopping on Google's Gemini
platform. And Alaska Air is launching a
multi-million dollar tech overhaul in
the wake of painful outages that upended
operations and hit earnings. CFO [music]
Shane Tacket telling Bloomberg the
airline is weighing a massive move to
cloud providers like Amazon and
Microsoft to build [music] system
resilience. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate your take.
More from Yihara in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, Greenland
in Washington sites.
>> If we don't take Greenland, Russia or
China will take Greenland. And I am not
going to let that happen. Sure, I'd ra
I'd love to buy make a deal with them.
It's easier. But in one way or the
other, we're going to have Greenland.
>> That conversation up next with
Bloomberg's Ali Crook from New York City
this morning. You're watching Bloomberg
[music] TV.
[music]
>> [music]
>> In many ways unprecedented, the chairman
of the Federal Reserve coming out
swinging yesterday evening, accusing the
White House of coming after its central
bank independence. And this is the price
action this morning in response.
Negative by 0.5% on the S&P and the
NASDAQ down by 0.7. In the bond market,
yields higher at the long end at a
curve. 10-year [music] bond yields up by
three, 30-year bond yields up by four or
five. Now you might run away with the
idea that the South America trade is
back. These aren't big moves, but
[music] directionally they speak to the
same thing. Just a slow erosion boosting
fueling that concern that we're chipping
away at central bank independence.
>> The direction would suggest that the
fact that it isn't more is actually a
significant signal. And how much is this
that we haven't heard much response
[music] from President Trump that yes,
we had that message from Fed Chair J.
Pal, but we haven't heard a more
concerted or coherent message coming
from the White House about, you know,
this means he needs to leave, etc. We've
heard attacks on Fed Chair J. Pal for a
long time. We've seen a lot of chipping
away at this Fed institution's
credibility. The fact that we haven't
heard much is actually a signal in and
of itself.
>> And Director PY wouldn't even touch the
story that he was [music] involved in
this about the investigation then
passing it off to the DOJ. It also is
interesting to me the president had a
chance to speak to [music] reporters
yesterday in Air Force One. talked about
Iran, about Greenland, about credit
cards. Then the [music] story came out
about J. Pal, the subpoena. We saw J.
Pal do this unprecedented, very r rare
video. The president immediately called
NBC News [music] to say, "No, I had
nothing to do with this, and this is not
what I've wanted." I clearly think the
administration is at this moment, this
morning, wanting to take the temperature
down.
>> I think the market's already
desensitized. The amount of [music]
things we've thrown at the wall in the
last week or so, threatening the
territorial the territorial integrity of
Greenland as well. So, might as well
talk about that, too. [music] And this
event is this morning. Greenland in
Washington sites.
>> If we don't take Greenland, Russia or
China will take Greenland. And I am not
going to let that happen. Sure, I'd ra
I'd love to buy make a deal with them.
It's easier.
>> But one way or the other, we're going to
have Greenland.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump saying the US
needs to own Greenland and will secure
the territory, quote, the hard way if a
deal isn't reached. Representatives from
Denmark set to meet in Washington on
Wednesday. Bloomberg's Ollie Crook joins
us now for more. Ollie, good morning.
What's the response been like over in
Europe?
>> I think it's very difficult for them to
know what to make of this. This is
clearly something that the Trump
administration and Donald Trump is not
letting go. And for the Europeans coming
up with a collective response here that
is both firm but also does not anger or
too confrontational with the United
States has been a very difficult path
for them to follow. As you mentioned,
the Danish foreign minister will be uh
in Washington DC on Wednesday. So will
the sort of foreign minister for
Iceland. They of course would
potentially be quite concerned as well
from what they're hearing about
Greenland and also the German foreign
minister in DC today. What the Germans
are proposing and this is to deal with
that concern that basically NATO and
European NATO is not able to manage the
security of the Arctic. The Germans, the
UK and some others are putting forward
this idea of putting forward a sort of
joint operation in the Arctic that's led
by NATO and a number of different NATO
troops in order to sort of beef up the
security apparatus within Green
Greenland. I should say the Danes have
also been very open to the Americans
coming in having more of a military
presence in Greenland, having a much
larger presence in either more bases
across Greenland or having more troops
there. That is something that the Danes
have said they're very open to. That
being said, what we heard from the
president yesterday, he is not
interested in leasing the territory.
He's not interested in a temporary
solution. He is interested in ownership.
So the Europeans are trying to address
the security part of that. But if this
for Donald Trump is more about
exploiting the resources of Greenland or
potentially just expanding the US man
land mass for his own legacy and for his
own interest, that is going to be a very
difficult thing for the Europeans to
convince him because the security will
not be the driving goal here. It will be
something much bigger and much diff.
>> Oliver, what about the secretary general
of NATO, Mark Ruta? His very close
relationship with the president. Is he
going to be involved in this?
>> Uh he will certainly be involved in this
and trying to talk uh Trump down from
this from this situation. But as you
said there, and John referenced this
earlier, I think what the kind of
rhetoric that really concerns the
Europeans is what we heard from Trump on
Friday saying that I'd like to make a
deal the easy way. If we don't do it the
easy way, we're going to do it the hard
way. That obviously sounds familiar
because that's exactly what Donald Trump
said about Venezuela at the end of
November and five and six weeks later,
we saw how that resolved itself. Now,
it's very unlikely, I think, still at
this point to be considering about a
military confrontation between the
United States and NATO. But there is
this new sort of special envoy for
Greenland. There's been sort of
discussions apparently within the Trump
administrations about making direct
please to the people of Greenland saying
potentially cash payments of 10,000 to
$100,000 to people of Greenland. There
are 57,000 of them. That would be less
than $6 billion from the US sort of
budget. That's barely a rounding error
for you know the military spend in the
United States. So these are all sort of
different ideas that are sort of
floating around there. And of course the
Europeans are trying to find a
collective approach. They may have a
little bit of luck in buying some time
the United States with its hands filled
with Venezuela and Iran at the moment
but again the time is ticking on that.
>> Ollie, thanks for joining us. We'll keep
track of the story. Oi Krook over in
Europe. Without a doubt, Greenland is of
huge geostrategic importance and the
president has I think done a tremendous
job of highlighting that issue. But what
is at play here is ultimately the
president telling the Europeans and NATO
members that they can't be trusted can't
be trusted to defend that territory.
>> It's the method, not necessarily the
goal. The goal of uh geopolitical
security is one that has been put in
place and a lot of people would agree
with. Question is what does the US want
that it doesn't have right now
considering the fact that we couldn't
put more uh troops in in uh in the area
and potentially could the United States
really break away from NATO?
>> Well, to John's point, the president has
been talking about this since his first
term. Yesterday, NATO puts out a tweet
showing ships in the Arctic. They're
practicing for the harsh conditions.
Well, they probably should have done
that [music] 10, 15 years ago. If you're
just joining us, welcome. Futures down
by 0.5%. The opener bell about 94
minutes away. Joining us to discuss
next, Alicia Lavine [music] of BMW,
Leslie Palty Guzman of Energy Vista,
Tossen Slock of Apollo, David George of
Bet. The bank earnings just around
[music] the corner.
>> [music]
>> Coming into 2026, there's obviously been
a lot of optimism. I never want to bet
against the resiliency [music] of US
large caps.
>> When you break up the market and see
where it's coming from, the bulk of it
is coming from big tech.
>> You have to be very, very careful about
how you invest long-term [music] at
scale.
>> You have to be focused on fundamentals.
At the end of the day,
>> this is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores will look like this.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 pulling
back from alltime highs. We're down by
0.5% on the [music] S&P. On the NASDAQ,
down by 0.7 in the bond market, 2-year,
10-year, 30-year picture looks like
this. Yields bleeding [music] high at
the long end of the curve. Up by five on
30s to 486, up by four on 10s to [music]
420. Going into quite a big week
tomorrow morning, inflation data, tons
of earnings as well. While you hear from
JP Morgan [music]
and Delta Airlines, plenty of people
have come on this program in the last 12
months and said the Federal Reserve is
under siege. Central Bank independence
is threatened. Someone else came and did
it in the last 24 hours and this time it
was the chairman himself.
>> That was the anomaly. That was the
notable feature given the fact that our
reporting says [music] that the Federal
Reserve got the subpoena on Friday. Fed
chair J. Powell chose to release a
statement and an accompanying video
commentary [music] saying that this is
not having anything to do with his
testimony in front of Congress. This has
to do with uh him trying to keep
interest rates according to what he sees
best fit rather than what the president
would like. [music] Really opening the
door to a real confrontation about Fed
independence. The fact that we haven't
seen a bigger sell-off definitely
notable. But watch this space [music]
not just with bond yields but also the
dollar. Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy
says that this is a [music] middle
finger in public from the Federal
Reserve chair Jay Pal to this
administration. He goes on to talk
[music] about basically a self-inflicted
Trump womb at a time when the markets
need at least and when Trump needs at
least because guess what Jay Powell is
up in months and [music] the president
of United States is going to have a
chance to appoint someone else, someone
else he might like. And [music] now you
have Senator Tom Tillis, senior senator
in the banking committee, basically
saying, "I am not even looking at a new
nominee [music] until we have this
subpoena and what's going on with the
DOJ and the Federal Reserve cleared."
>> Not [music] for me to say it was the
right or wrong thing to do to put out
that video statement yesterday evening,
but it was certainly unusually
confrontational from this chairman who's
been asked about these kind of
situations in the past and [music] has
really sort of sort of step taken a step
back and refused, I would almost say, to
engage. [music]
This is a different chairman pound
coming into 26,
>> which is the reason why people are
speculating this could mean he wants to
stay [music] on as a Fed governor even
after his chairmanship goes up. He went
on to say, "Public service sometimes
requires standing firm in the face of
threats." [music] Going on to say he
will do what's in the interest of
American people, not necessarily uh what
is currently being told to him.
>> It is a huge [music] shift from Jay
Powell. I looked up what he said in
December last night when he was asked
about this quote, "I'm focused on my
remaining time as chair. [music] I've
got no anything. I haven't got anything
new on that to tell you. Well, last
night he had something very new to tell
us.
>> Can they file you? No. Remember that
one's conference?
>> I remember the journalist who didn't
have a follow-up and was like, "Wait,
hold on a second." You know, I have to
say the [music] comment over the weekend
that really got me was Peter Shear of
Academy Securities where he said,
"Expect a lot more announcements and
many more subjects [music] than you
thought were possible, even in your
wildest imagination. Let your
imagination run wild with what could
come up as a potential policy because
for this [music] administration, out of
the box is the norm, and not trying to
get ahead of it could cost you." It
seems like we're all just sitting here
thinking [music] our imaginations are
sick of being wild. Maybe it's just we
don't want to tame them a little bit.
>> Did he conclude by saying buy stocks
anyway? Um none of it matters.
>> 100%. He also said probably this means
that bond yields are going to go lower.
All things being equal, so it will give
some sort of tailwind.
>> I do wonder if this dip gets bought
before the end of today. We're down by
[laughter] 0.5 on the S&P. Coming up
this Alicia Lavine of BMY Wild, the
stocks are sliding. Leslie Py Guzman of
Energy Vista with geopolitical
uncertainty weighing on the oil markets
and tors of Apollo on the future of Fed
independence. We begin this out with
stocks falling as tensions grow between
the Trump administration and the Federal
Reserve.
The threat of criminal charges is a
consequence of the Federal Reserve
setting interest rates based on our best
assessment of what will serve the public
rather than following the preferences of
the president.
This is about whether the Fed will be
able to continue to set interest rates
based on evidence and economic
conditions or whether instead monetary
policy will be directed by political
pressure or intimidation. So here's the
latest this morning. Fed chair J. Pal
insisting Fed independence is under
attack leading to investors trimming
exposure to US assets. Joining us around
the table, Alicia Lavine of BNY WA.
Alicia, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's just another thing against the wall
that we need to consider. Lots of things
being thrown against the wall in the
last week alone. Does any of it matter?
>> So, it's interesting. I think our
headline on 2025 was the noise is noisy.
And the headline on 2026 is the noise
continues to be noisier and ratchet it
up. And so, ultimately, as investors, we
have to think through what have we
learned in the first six trading days of
the year that's fundamentally different
and what's happening with corporate
America and earnings. And that's really
where you have to lie because the
conversations are interesting and
fascinating and do have impact on what's
happening in in the markets and what's
happening in corporate America, but
ultimately how much of this just
continues to be the noise and and it
it's a it's a difficult situation. It's
not easy because we can get focused on
all of these issues and we have to
decide what to do with the capital.
>> Let's take the first 12 days. Lots of
things announced, stocks grind higher,
decent start to the year. Does that
change as we look further out this year?
>> So, I think when we came into this year
saying, look, we see earnings up 14%.
We see the S&P, we're in that, you know,
our top of the range is about 7600
because we see a very nonlinear year
because we continue to see more policy
actions coming out that could rattle
markets here and there. And ultimately,
you start the year at 22 times forward
earnings, you're just going to have a
more sensitive market. Now, we've been
at 22 times forward earnings for the
last 15 months or so. But you can see
that there's just more of vulnerability
on the volatility side, if not
necessarily in the fundamental side. So,
dips will be buyable here, but you're
going to get days like this and like we
had last week with all the different
announcement about housing and credit
card rates and everything else.
>> A lot of people agree with you and they
do think that the market bid amid some
volatility will creep higher through the
end of the year. where they disagree and
the consensus disagrees is that the rest
of the world will continue to do better
than the United States based on a lack
of certainty around US policy and a
weakening US dollar. Why do you disagree
with that? So, we have actually raised
our allocations to international a
little bit more at the end of last year
and into the beginning of this year
because we see something of a softer
dollar this year. Not what we saw last
year. Last year the dollar was down
about 9 and a half%. We don't see that
again this year. We don't see flee
America here. You're getting echoes of
it today, but I don't think that's the
conversation this year. Ultimately, as
as an allocator, you want to think about
where is the ball going overall. You can
make tactical trades, but ultimately the
US is the most dynamic economy and
ultimately that's where you want to be
invested. I don't think the rest of the
world can outperform on fundamentals
over the US, but you can certainly have
months or quarters where international
markets do better. And that's what we
saw last year as well. But if you're if
you're doing if you're if you're doing
fundamental analysis, the the growth is
here. The productivity is clearly here.
We're clearly on a productivity upswing
in the 2020s. We expect that to
continue. And you see it in the margin
growth in the S&P as well.
>> And a lot of that has to do with
technology and what's going on with
artificial intelligence, etc. I do want
to dig into some of the sectors that you
like, financials in particular,
especially ahead of bank earnings. We've
seen a huge outperformance in the KBW
bank index, something like 15% in the
past three months, uh, versus less than
4% on the S&P 500. At what point is that
threatened based on some of the policy
threats that might not be put into
practice exactly, but in spirit a little
bit more so? So, I don't think we've
learned anything new like I don't think
we've learned anything much new in the
last week. We understand two things that
the the the government wants a steeper
yield curve and the government wants
deregulation. That is so good for the
small and medium-sized banks and the
regional banks and ultimately the larger
banks as well. We just did a you know we
did a study on bank valuations. If you
think about what deregulation did to the
multiples of the banks before 2008 there
is still room to run here and there's
still room to run and price to book as
well. So if your old overall framework
is deregulation there's further to go
here. We don't think this trade is done.
We think it's a fun, you know,
steepening yield curve, deregulation.
That's the sweet spot.
>> So, when you have banks trading down on
because the president is talking about a
10% credit card interest rate cap, maybe
today is a day you'd actually want to
scoop them up.
>> I would say yes. I mean, ultimately,
that's a I think that's a legal
challenge, right? I I'm I'm not a
lawyer, but there are, you know, this is
not an administrative decision. This is
a legal issue.
>> When it comes to You said that it's
noisy last year, it's getting louder
this year. Is there a chance the United
States goes deaf? meaning is there any
of these policies like what's going on
with the Federal Reserve could
potentially mean long-term damage to the
investment case of the United States.
>> So I I think that's a really interesting
question. It's going to show up in the
long end of the of the of the bond
market essentially, right? That's where
the risk is going to show up as well. I
mean the equity market has been
remarkably resilient. I'd say the bond
market's been resilient as well here.
It's a chipping away, right? It's
clearly a chipping away, but I think
it's a global issue because if you lose
the investment case in the US, very hard
to be very bullish elsewhere, right?
We're the consumer of the world. We're
the growth engine of the world. Very
hard to say, well, then like other
places look great fundamentally,
strategically.
>> I'm sympathetic to the idea this might
not be a story for 2026, but I do think
it's one we have to track. We've talked
about this earlier this week, or rather
in the last week. Things are flying by
already feel like we're still in last
week.
>> I feel like we're in 2028. I know
earnings have been fantastic and you're
right to point to earnings for the next
12 months. They were brilliant the last
12 months. Jobs growth was not
>> and I'm a bit of a cynic when it comes
to politicians on both sides that the
only thing they care about is staying in
power. All they want to be is a
politician and stay in office for as
long as the I can see. I think we can
see that on the left and the right. They
have a lot in common right now. They're
all pushing for the same kind of
policies. Why? Because they think
they're the kind of policies that will
keep them in office. And that's why I
think we have to take these policies
seriously. I sat here early this morning
and said that some of the ideas that I'm
hearing from this administration are
typically associated with the
financially illiterate left when it
comes to things like credit card costs.
But you have to respect this. This is
coming from a place where politicians
believe these are the kind of ideas that
will get them elected. Which is why I
think we have to take them seriously.
Now we can sit here and say it's not a
story for 26, but I think it's going to
be a story for 27, for 28. The president
of the United States goes to Davos,
Switzerland next week. He's going to
deliver a speech and echo some of the
kind of themes he's talking about.
people on the left are going to come out
and agree with him. And the people who
feel like they've been left out from
this massive long bull market in America
and elsewhere are going to vote for
these proposals in the elections over
the next 2 3 four years. The biggest
risk for this market are the kind of
ideas that we all sit around this table
and say these are really rubbish ideas.
They're not going to happen. The biggest
risk for this market is they do happen
and they happen because politicians
believe they're the kind of ideas that
will help them get elected.
>> So when do they start getting priced?
Right? I mean, at what point do people
take them seriously given the fact that
they're coming from both sides of the
aisle? And is it going to be some sort
of proposal that actually gets through?
We saw tariffs, for example, everyone
roundly said they were terrible ideas
and then they got through and actually
people started to pay them and you
started to see people say, "Well, maybe
they're not so bad." Well, honestly, you
have to wonder at what point, given how
many people are talking about them, they
come to fruition.
>> No tax on tips. I don't know how many
people said to me, Amory, it's just a
2024 election issue that the president
needs Nevada. It's not going to happen.
Well, guess what? It did happen. It was
part of the one big beautiful bill. So,
to your point, maybe this doesn't happen
in 2026. But there are senators on both
sides that have already lined up a year
ago for this bill. Senator Bernie
Sanders and Senator Josh Holly Thatcher
and Reagan all over again. Alicia, we'll
leave it there. It's good to see you.
Thanks for dropping by. Thank you,
Alicia Lavine of BNY Wealth. Let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahihara with more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Federal Chair Jerome Powell
says the central bank has been served
grand jury subpoenas from the Justice
Department threatening a criminal
indictment. Last summer, the Trump
administration ramped up scrutiny of the
cost of renovations of the Fed's [music]
headquarters. Powell says it's a pretext
to end Fed independence. Trump denies
having any knowledge of the
investigation.
Meanwhile, shares of major credit card
issuers are falling in the pre-market
after President Trump's demand they cap
interest rates [music] at 10% for one
year. Trump saying if they don't comply
by January 20th, they are in violation
of the law. He did not it not backed up
by legislation, however, and Trump
provided no explanation for how the
lenders would be breaking the law. And
box office numbers from the first full
weekend of 2026 are in. And for a fourth
consecutive week, Avatar Fire and Ash
remains in [music] the top spot. The
third movie in the franchise has
surpassed $340 million in the US,
officially cracking the top 30 highest
grossing [music] films of all time.
That's your brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next, the
morning calls. Plus, we'll catch on with
Leslie Palty Guzman of Energy [music]
Vista as geopolitical uncertainty is
weighing on crude markets. That
conversation up next from New York City
this [music] morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> I think this complicates the job for
whoever the next Fed chair is, which was
already going going to be somewhat
complicated in terms of expressing
[music] independence. This just makes it
a little bit harder. My hope, not just
as a market participant, but as an
American, is that we lower the
temperature on this and [music] you
know, this ends up being a curfluffle,
but the longer it goes on, the harder it
is for that to happen.
>> I think everyone wants to lower the
temperature on things. That was Steve
Chevron of Federated. Your price action
looks like this this morning. [music]
Equity futures on the S&P 500 pulling
back by 0.5%. We're down by 3/4 of 1% on
the NASDAQ 100. That's the price action.
Here are your morning calls. First up,
[music] JP Morgan raising its price
target on Capital 1, viewing President
Trump's call to limit credit card
interest rates as a quote low
probability risk. The stock is down by
8.5%. Your second call from Bank of
America upgrading Comcast [music] to
buy, highlighting industry consolidation
and emerging opportunities. The stock is
up by 1%. And your third and final call
from Wells [music] Fargo, upgrading
Konico Phillips to overweight, seeing
headroom for dividend growth. A stock
positive this morning by more than 1%.
[music] Let's stick with energy. The
Exxon CEO Darren Woods calling Venezuela
quote uninvestable, sparking [music]
backlash from President Trump.
>> No, I didn't like Exxon's response. You
know, we have so many that wanted. I'd
probably be inclined to keep Exxon out.
I didn't like their response. They're
they're playing too cute.
>> Tracking this story, Javier Blast of
Bloomberg Opinion. Javier, welcome to
the program. What did you make of the
difference between Chevron's
communications going into the weekend
and Exxonant?
>> Well, there was a lot of difference both
on substance and style. Um, I think that
EU focus of what Chevron said was, "Mr.
President, we are already in Venezuela.
We are going to continue and we can
increase production and it was a lot of
things uh to towards the
administration." Exxon CEO went to the
White House and effectively delivered a
101 class on the way that Exxon invests
and then ultimately told Trump to his
face uh Mr. President your plan is not
going to work. That's what means
uninvestable and I think that Trump is
reacting in in as we will expected. I
mean the body language live on the
broadcast of that meeting said
everything you look at at the chief of
staff of Trump she was extremely unhappy
with Darren Boots and if anything my
surprise is that it took almost 24 hours
for the White House to make clear that
they were not happy as you know Exxon's
been burnt over the years trying to go
into that country Chevron's still there
which I kind of think speaks to why
there was such a difference between
those executives going into the weekend
there is a middle ground here and I'd
like to sort of flesh that out with you
Many people have turned around and said
this is bad energy, bad crude. It's
difficult to get it out. You can't sell
it that easily. It's hard to scale up
production in that country. Javier, do
you take a bit of a different
perspective on things?
I would say that yes, that that is an
argument and I think that is a there is
a lot of white and black discussion,
black and white discussion about
Venezuela. I think a middle ground. I
think that there is potential for uh low
what I will call lowh hanging barrels if
you forgive me for the metaphor. Um
those low hanging barrels are not in the
orinoco which is where the extra heavy
oil is located are in the traditional
areas of Venezuelan oil industry in Lake
Marbo on the on the west uh monagas in
the east and you could increase
production perhaps by three four 500,000
barrels a day over the next couple of
years. I think that you listen to what
the oil companies already in the ground
on the ground in Venezuela that Chevron
repel of Spain and of Italy they
indicated that they they are planning to
do that. If you are thinking about
increasing production by millions of
barrels a day, then yes, you have to go
to the Orinoco and yes, that is
difficult oil to extract. It's
expensive. It's difficult to refine. But
there is a middle ground on the story.
And I think that over the short term, we
are going to see more Venezuelan oil
coming into the market. But to see
millions of barrels, that's going to
take time.
>> Great work in the last week. Javier, I
appreciate your time. Jav have a blast
there of Bloomberg opinion on Venezuela.
What does it all mean for Iran? Leslie
Palty Guzman, the founder of Energy
Vista, writing, "We are witnessing a
remapping of global energy production if
Iran undergoes regime change. Additional
vast untapped oil and gas reserves could
also re-enter global markets." Leslie
joins us now for more. Leslie, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Welcome to the program. How different is
this moment? It's a question we keep
asking this morning. How different is
this moment for Iran? Um, so Iran
specifically, I think we've seen
unprecedented protests, but what's
different is that it goes beyond the
woman movement and it goes also beyond
the students and the youth. It's also a
movement for the middle class, for the
workers, the traders um, in the markets
that have been really hit by the
economic situation. Um, teran is
undergoing a huge water crisis, water
shortage. Um there is uh even
electricity shortage. Well, Iran has
vast u resources of oil and gas. Um and
I think that um following the summer
with the war um between Israel and Iran
and the strikes also with Israel and the
US, the revolution, the Islamist
revolution is really undergoing a crisis
and may never come back. Leslie, there's
a bigger question for the oil markets,
whether it's in Iran, whether it's in
Venezuela, of how much oil has been
locked up in regimes that are
inaccessible to at least uh legal
markets in the world that could come
back online and what that does to just
supply demand dynamics. I mean, do you
have any estimates of how much oil,
whether it's Iran, whether it's
Venezuela, could come back online?
>> Yeah. So I would say first that this oil
the people the population has not seen
the benefits of this oil for decades
right the despots in Venezuela were
using this oil to maintain the cronies
and buying loyalties same for Iran it's
the revolutionary guards that are
getting most of the money from this oil
um the Venezuela
the likelihood is that Chevron was
already in place will um target the
lowhanging fruits, a little bit of
maintenance, repair of equipment,
managing to bring back a few thousands
barrels first and then to get to the
two to three million barrels a day will
take much more time. Um, from the
meeting in the White House, we've seen
that I've seen some excitement but also
some trepidation and caution, right?
Excitement because it's the biggest
jill, right? like for companies it's uh
like being a kid in a candy shop. You
really want you know it's it's a
historical opportunity but you have also
many above ground risks and if they are
not addressed fast enough um companies
are not are dragg are going to drag
their feet but I think also um you know
um some companies will take the risk.
Secretary Wright over the weekend said
the wildcatterters are wild cats are
ready to go into Venezuela. But he said
when it comes to Exxon they were an
outlier and he said of course they're
going to be the last one to go back in.
What kind of price does WTI need to be
trading at for Darren Woods to say okay
you know what now's a good time to go
try for a Caracus a third time.
>> I thought his speech was very well
formulated
uh because it was a three-point speech.
Um,
Exxon needs a win-win-win for the
government, for the population, and uh,
you know, for the shareholders of Exxon.
Um, so the shareholder means we need a
return on our investment. we're not
going to get there if we know we're
going to lose money. And um he needs uh
he needs to know that his investment is
going to be um guaranteed for decades
not just for the time being of the Trump
administration. He needs to be uh with a
fiscal framework with a legal framework.
So right now the Trump administration
can guarantee maybe the political
stabilization. there is still an armada
of navy uh posted in the Caribbean that
are going to put pressure on the current
interim government. Um so the the I
think political stability is going to be
there potentially but then to take it's
going to take more time. I think the
price you know right now that's the main
contradiction of the Trump
administration. They want oil prices to
be around $50 per barrel, but oil
companies and um they need a little bit
higher, but at the same time, our
adversaries, Russia, key of them
>> is going to lose leverage with this kind
of oil price.
>> Leslie, it's good to see you.
>> Thanks for dropping by. Leslie Gman of
Vista Energy Friday really highlighting
that this country does not have a
national oil producer and that
ultimately these guys are accountable to
shareholders which is why
>> you heard what you heard from the Exxon
CEO.
>> Yeah, if you've been burned once and
then you've been burned again and then
you go in again, well guess what? Shame
on you. At least according to
shareholders that ultimately will be
[music] the uh boss that Dared Woods is
going to appeal to.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Torson Slock Apollo on the future
of Fed independence. Plus, Danny has
your morning movers. Credit card
providers sliding after the White House
aims to cap interest rates.
[music]
The opening bell just around the corner,
60 minutes away. Your scores look like
this. Equity futures on the S&P 500 down
by 0.5 on the NASDAQ negative by 0.7
with your morning movers with more.
Here's Danny. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Just another check on the
credit card companies this morning. All
continued decline in the pre-market
move. American Express, Capital 1, JP
Morgan City, Visa. All of them tumbling
after President Trump saying that
[music] the credit card companies needed
to cap interest rates at 10% by January
20th or consider themselves in violation
of the law. Some questions as to whether
he can actually do that or not. Walmart
that is gaining in the pre-market trade.
A few things going on this morning. For
one, NASDAQ says that it will be
inducted into the NASDAQ 100. Jeffrey's
pointing out that because of passive
flows into the index, it will mean $19
billion flows in [music] to Walmart
shares worth of demand. They also are
partnering with Gemini, with Alphabets
Gemini, uh allowing users on the uh AI
platform to shop for Walmart [music]
products. So, those shares up just under
4%. Uh finally this morning out moments
ago Shake Shack earnings it was a miss
for their fourth quarter. The company
itself blaming bad weather in the
northeast for sales being less of less
people coming in. But it does continue
on this theme of fast casual suffering.
Cava they downgraded their outlook as
did Wing stops. You're looking at Shake
Shack shares fall [music] by 3 and a
half% this morning. John
>> getting tough out there that's for sure.
Danny, thank you. Thank you very much.
Let's go to the bond market. Look at
this. Sometimes the market move doesn't
meet the moment [music] because it was
quite a moment yesterday evening. And
this is the market move. Bond yields
higher by just three basis points,
failing to break out of a recent trading
range, the 10-year 420.
>> It isn't an extreme move. a question of
whether this is actually [music]
something that is going to undermine the
Fed's independence or heighten focus on
this to then give Republican senators,
I'm thinking of Tom Telles from North
Carolina, a little bit more incentive
[music] to push back and maybe create
some guard rails around any type of Fed
discussion. There is now a discussion
that uh President Trump is [music] going
to interview Rick Reard of Black Rockck
this week as a potential Fed candidate.
How much [music] does this change
potentially who he chooses who could
actually get through the committee?
>> It's a good point. Secretary Besson said
that there will [music] be an
announcement he thinks before or after
Davos and then once Rick Reer's done
that's it. Everyone has had their time
for this interview with [music] the
president. So he will get a nomination.
But I do wonder if given where the
market is trading, do we have something
new now? Not a Powell put, not a [music]
Trump put, a Tillis put. Tom, tell us
>> for now the confirmation process is
immensely important and I'm with you for
now and things are changing very
quickly. This probably torches [music]
Kevin Hasset potentially getting on that
committee, doesn't it?
>> They don't want a loyalist because
ultimately many uh congressmen as well
as people in the legal world would like
to see a little bit more [music] of uh
at least the appearance of independence.
They don't want necessarily a yes man or
someone perceived as a yes man to the
president.
>> Let's stick with our top story. the
future of Fed independence.
>> No one, certainly not the chair of the
Federal Reserve, is above the law. But
this unprecedented action should be seen
[music] in the broader context of the
administration's threats and ongoing
pressure. The threat of criminal charges
is [music] a consequence of the Federal
Reserve setting interest rates based on
our best assessment of what will serve
the public rather than following the
preferences of the president.
>> Joining us now, Bloomberg's Mike McKe.
Mike, we've gone over this a few times
and as I said just moments ago, the move
in the market doesn't meet the moment,
but this is a big moment. Can you frame
not just the last 24 hours, frame the
last 12 months? The chairman pal that
handled the situation through 2025 and
the chairman pal we saw yesterday
evening.
>> Well, the president has been attacking
Pal since his first term and it just
ramped up when he came back to office in
January. The Fed's response, Pal's
response has always been to keep his
head down, talk about the fact that he
is not going to get involved in politics
and he's just going to do his job.
Something changed on Friday when they
got the subpoena about a criminal
investigation and they decided now was
the time to speak up and Paul did it
about as forcefully as you could, almost
accusing the administration of
extortion. Important to remember that
he's not been indicted. This is just a
criminal subpoena. We'll see where it
goes, but it is uh ramping up of the
tension between the Fed and the
administration and now it's roped in the
markets. You were just talking about uh
the markets not reacting as much as
people might have thought. I suspect
there's a bit of a taco trade to this.
Markets don't think Trump would follow
through with a criminal indictment. But
what do the rest of Powell's colleagues
think? We will have a lot of opportunity
to hear from them this week. Starting
today, Bostik Barkin and John Williams,
the vice chair of the open market
committee, Musalam, uh, Myron, Paulson,
Qashqari, uh, Bar, Barkin, Schmid,
Bowman, and Jefferson all speaking this
week, and you can bet the subject is
going to come up anytime they take
questions and maybe even voluntarily in
their remarks. Also, a big economic
week, which probably would have been
what you and I would have been talking
about right now with CPI tomorrow. We
have PPI on Wednesday plus retail sales
claims in Philly Fed on Thursday and
Friday industrial production. We're
getting a lot of data in after we've
gotten the jobs report that suggested
maybe the Fed doesn't move. And now with
all this PAL stuff, it just raises a
question of whether the Fed will not
move to spite the president.
>> Precisely. And Mike, I think that's the
key issue. The people we speak to, they
take this issue seriously. And because
they take this issue seriously, they
believe the other people on the
committee do as well. And there is a
sense, and we've heard the argument a
few times on the program already this
year, that they believe this will just
galvanize the other members of the
Federal Reserve to dig in. That the
appointment of people like Governor
Steven Myron has unintended
consequences. It leads to push back on
the committee. It galvanizes other
members of the Federal Reserve. Do you
think the same thing could happen with
the events over the weekend?
>> Oh, absolutely. These are
institutionalists. uh nobody there is
someone who was except for perhaps
Steven Meyer, somebody who thinks the
Fed should be turned over upside down.
Uh there are a lot of calls for some
reforms, but this is the kind of thing
that challenges the institution itself
and gets people's backs up. And as we
were talking about in one of our earlier
uh discussions, if Pal stays on as
governor, I would expect the Open Market
Committee, even if uh there's no new
chairman, to renominate him as chairman
of the Open Market Committee, which sets
interest rates out of loyalty to him and
as a rebuke to the president.
>> Mike, just frame that and go forward
with that a few more steps. For a lot of
people that just heard that for the
first time, what do you mean? Are you
suggesting that the president could
nominate one guy, but the guy who runs
interest policy could be another guy?
>> It's very possible. There's two
scenarios. One is that the president
appoints somebody and they're confirmed
and the Fed wants to send a message. It
may be somebody that they don't think is
particularly reliable. Uh the other is
that nobody gets through the committee
in time because Tom Tillis and others on
the banking committee hold up any
nomination. Philip Jefferson would
become chairman of the Fed by law. But
the open market committee chooses its
own chair and they don't even have to
work for the Fed. So they could pick
anybody and I suspect that Paul would be
their choice for the interim. They might
pick Mike McKe. Who knows?
>> Maybe you maybe the president. He says
that he the easiest job in Washington.
>> Michael, thank you. Appreciate it.
Michael McKe breaking down a long list
of issues for this institution. Toss
lock of Apollo writes the following. The
market reaction this morning is very
muted which is telling investors that
the key issue continues to be the
incoming data to joins us now for more
to good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Nice try. Still going to ask you about
this.
>> Tell me your thoughts this morning and
your respon response to what took place
yesterday evening.
>> I do think the market reaction is
absolutely critical especially the
market reaction in long rates the dollar
and also inflation expectations and on
all three fronts we've had a relatively
muted reaction. So one conclusion is
that the market obviously is looking at
this and the reaction has been as you
would have expected that rates are up a
bit the dollar is down. We'll see
inflation expectations if they go up a
bit more throughout the day but it's
still relatively small compared to how
much drama has been made of this over
the last 24 hours. Is that a huge buy
signal essentially that this is a market
that really believes in the institution
of the Federal Reserve and the United
States uh checks and balances in a way
that encourages you to invest in the
United States
>> because investors come to the US for two
reasons. They come for AI and they come
for higher yield and when they come for
higher yield of course it's because the
rest of the world doesn't have great
growth at the moment and the level of
yields for the Fed is of course higher
than what it is for the ECB and for a
number of central banks around the
world. So for that reason, foreigners
come to clip a higher coupon in bonds
and foreigners also come to get AI
exposure. So for that reason, this is
not directly linked as such to the AI
story. But what this could be linked to
is of course the yield story. If you
begin to see the Fed lower interest
rates, not for economic reasons, then
the big question becomes well, what
would that mean for the steepness of
yield curve? Where is it foreign
investors are investing? And if foreign
investors are further out then the risk
is of course that the yield curve will
be even steeper and therefore foreigners
will be getting an even higher level of
yield further out the curve. So there's
a lot of issues around this question of
why is the dollar not weaker? Namely
because foreigners actually still like
the AI story and they still like the
higher coupon that they get in the US.
>> What would you have to see to suggest
the sell America trade truly is starting
to take off that people are starting to
take this seriously? the dollar going
down because that of course is
ultimately the risk that foreigners will
begin to say well we have less appetite
for buying US assets but the key issue
continues to be that the US growth
outlook continues to be much better than
the growth outlook in Europe much better
than the growth outlook in Canada
Australia Japan because we have the AI
data center boom and energy boom of
course expanding everything over the
next several quarters we have the one
big wheel for bill we also have oil
prices lower we also have the dollar now
marginally lower all those tailwinds
continue to support GDP growth
throughout this year let's forget that
the one big bit of a bill is going to
add 0.9% to GDP growth according to the
Congressional Budget Office in 2026.
That's a very meaningful boost to GDP
over the coming quarter. So that's why
the consensus expects if I look at ECFCO
and my Bloomberg that the unemployment
rate will peak just about now and the
unemployment rate is about to go down
over the coming quarters. And that's a
very important point when you think
about the backdrop for this story about
what's going on with the Federal Reserve
these days. When it comes to sell
America, what about instead of the
dollar depreciating, what about the fact
that gold continues to hit new record
highs almost on a daily basis?
>> I do think that this is also a
reflection of a broader thing, namely
that there's also the issue of course
that central banks that are imposed with
sanctions are now shifting away from
dollars towards gold. You also have that
many Chinese investors have been buying
gold. They've been buying ETFs in China
in a very significant way over the last
several quarters that we haven't seen
before. So retail demand is very strong
and you also have because of sanctions
very strong demand and of course
inflation in the US let's not forget
which we normally of course talk about
is that it is still not at 2% it's still
closer to three than it is to two and
that of course is the number one issue
driving gold most frequently named that
if inflation is higher for longer and we
have an economy that's about to get
better because of the one big beautiful
bill the AI and data center spend well
that raises the risk that there's also
more upside risk to inflation over the
next several months
>> to GDP right now is tracking at what
four to 5%
>> well the Atlanta Fed GDP as you know is
very very high in
>> pretty fantastic and the last read we
had was pretty decent too four to 5% and
the president's going after the Federal
Reserve the president's looking to cap
interest rates at credit card companies
the president's going after things that
are one on the one hand are hurting home
builders on the other hand might help
them these are things we typically
associated with GDP tracking closer to
one or maybe in negative territory
what's gone wrong
>> well I think a very important part of
this discussion is that equity investors
care about corporate earnings and the
last few earning seasons have actually
been pretty good and corporate earnings
still look pretty good. If you look
ahead, contentious expectations are that
earnings throughout this year will
continue to rise. So if corporate
earnings are still good, well then
equities likely say, you know what, if
earnings are still good and these things
are not impacting the bottom line, well
then we should still of course expect
that equities could continue to do well.
What's going wrong for Main Street?
>> Well, credit and bond investors of
course have a lot of these things
suddenly because this begins to matter
in a number of different ways,
especially of course when it comes to
rates. So that's why it's more the bond
market that's paying more attention to
these risks. But even the bond market
and the reaction today has had a very
very muted reaction. So that's why the
conclusion here is as long as bond
markets and credit markets continue to
view this from a relatively complacent
and benign perspective then we should
still be looking at this from the
fundamental perspective.
>> Can we just part markets for a moment?
Just throw markets over there. I I just
want to talk about the fact that we're
generating four to 5% GDP growth and yet
everyone seems to be terribly unhappy.
What is so bad about this kind of
growth? What is the character of this
GDP growth compared to what it used to
be like? the jobless growth this time
around. What has changed? What has gone
wrong with the growth that we're
producing?
>> Yeah. So, the key issue to that is of
course is a K-shaped outlook both for
consumers. We have high-end versus
low-end and we also have for corporates.
Are you in AI or you're not in AI? Those
differences continue to drive that
high-end consumer spend continues to be
strong and AI of course data center
energy buildout continues to be strong.
Those things dominate the negative
effects that might be coming from the
lower leg of the K. And the labor market
is really mainly a reflection of
immigration. Remember in the last
several years 2022 to 24 net immigration
was about 3 million. The Congressional
Budget Office is now predicting will be
about 500,000. That's why the Federal
Reserve produces a lot of papers saying
that the equilibrium rate for non-farm
payrolls is no longer 200,000 like it
was for several years. Now it's 30,000.
So that's why last Friday's number on
non-farm payrolls is actually a pretty
good number when you take that into
account that we actually have had such a
dramatic decline.
>> So we should be happy with 50k.
>> Yeah. So 50k is actually better than
this St. Louis estimate of equilibrium
for nonfound payrolls which is 30,000
>> again. So why is everyone so miserable?
>> Well the stock market doesn't seem too
miserable credit in the stock market
understood. So, but this is right if you
think about of course consumer sentiment
that's also been driven very differently
according to where people are in the
income distribution but overall it's
still very clear that the economy is
actually still in decent shape and if
you now have the tailwind coming from
the one big beautiful bill again 1%
according to the CPO in growth being
added this year you have still have data
centers spent out and you'll still have
also of course everything going on with
lower dollar lower oil prices all that
are really strong tailwinds to the
growth outlook for the next several
quarters
>> do the American people feel the same way
because the president's clearly
responding to something when he goes to
Davos Switzland in a week and talks
about this great affordability push.
Obviously, he doesn't believe that the
consumers in America see things the same
way.
>> Well, of course, affordability is a
little bit different discussion because
it is correct on a number of different
fronts. Of course, home prices have not
done particularly well. There's also, of
course, other areas with tuition,
healthcare, etc. where the discussion
has been very important, but
nevertheless, the wealth effect for
consumers has been strong. Job growth
has still been relatively decent. At the
same time, you now actually saw wages go
up on Friday. You still have a number of
tailwinds that mean that on average the
US consumer the weekly data from Redbook
same store retail sales impressively
strong still telling you that in
aggregate the net effect of the K is
still that the higher end of the K is
dominating the overall picture for where
the macro data is.
>> We hope things turn around for everybody
else pretty soon to good to see you.
Thank you sir to SL there of Apollo.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloombo brief.
Here's Yahihara Anand. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. Walmart is partnering with
Alphabet for an AI shopping assistant.
Customers will be able to purchase
apparel, food, and more from the Gemini
browser or mobile app. This is in
addition to Walmart's partnership with
Open AI to let shoppers buy items on
Chat GPT. Meanwhile, Elon Musk's Gro AI
is banned in Indonesia and Malaysia.
Indonesia's Ministry of Communications
[music] and Digital Affairs imposed a
temporary ban aimed at protecting
citizens from faked pornographic
content. Malaysia's internet regulator
then followed suit. And in sports, a
wild opening weekend to the NFL
playoffs. Even I tuned in with four of
the five games decided in the final
minutes. The 49ers took down the
defending champs in Philadelphia while
the Rams held off the Panthers on a
game-winning touchdown pass. Elsewhere,
the Bears mounted an 18-point comeback
to stun the Packers as the Bills and
Patriots both secured their spots in the
divisional round. Dr. Bloomberg brief.
John [music]
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next,
we'll set you up for the day ahead.
Plus, we'll catch up with David George
of Bed looking ahead to bank earnings
and getting his view on what's going to
happen with credit cards. A conversation
[music] up next.
[music]
The markets I think have correctly, you
know, [music] gravitated to the positive
fundamentals, uh, which is a
disinflationary boom that's [music]
taking place in the economy. Uh, and I
think the markets until there's such
time as there actually is real, [music]
you know, uh, fire where there's smoke,
will continue to do so.
>> Just another snoozy Monday morning in
America. That was Russ Brownback of
Black [music] Rockck. Equity futures
right now in the S&P 500 negative by
0.5%. We're down by 8/10 of 1% on the
NASDAQ. [music] Wouldn't have it any
other way, would you, Bremo kind of news
flow to start the year?
>> Um, are you kidding? No, I would have it
a different way. I mean, let's have
enough things that we can actually focus
on rather than just sort of whack them
all.
>> So, subpoena on J Pal, 10% cap on credit
card interest rates, ban [music]
institutional purchase of single family
homes, directing the FHFA to buy $200
billion more of mortgage [music] back
securities, increasing the defense
budget to $1.5 trillion, but also limit
defense contractors to buy have stock
buybacks and [music] dividends, pushing
for $2,000 stimulus checks, capping
Nicholas Maduro, quote, will help Iran,
and aiming for $50 a barrel in WTI. Ever
in the news business, you're long
volatility.
In the bond market right now, not much
volatility, which I [music] think is
kind of the story. We are not breaking
out of this trading range. At least we
haven't this morning. 10 still sub 420.
Yield's only up by two basis points.
>> Yeah, if you shine enough bright lights
in your eyes, your eyes stop seeing. And
that's kind of how it feels.
>> Rammo [laughter] got a take on a bomb
market.
>> Put
>> Well, I just feel like if there are
enough shiny things every given time, I
mean, ultimately, what do you focus on?
and you focus on nothing. You go back to
the same things you focus on and you
become a bit numb and it feels like a
little bit. That's what's happening
right now.
>> Desensitized [music] in many ways
counting you down to the opening bell.
Lots to look ahead to. Lots of bright
lights been shown on [music] your face.
Today, the G7 finance minister's meeting
kicking off in Washington. Plus, defense
secretary Pete [music] Hexath will be
speaking. Look out for that. Tomorrow,
CPI data, the president speaking in
Detroit and earnings season begins with
JP Morgan and Delta. Wednesday, the US,
Greenland, and Denmark reportedly
holding talks. Supreme Court [music]
announces another round of opinions,
plus earnings from Bank of America,
Wells Fargo, and City. And then onto
Thursday, [music] another round of
claims and more bank earnings, too.
Let's turn to the bank. Shares of credit
card providers lower after President
Trump demanded lenders cap interest
rates at 10% in a move that targets one
of their most lucrative sources of
capital. Joining us now is David George,
senior bank analyst at Bed. David, now I
thought we'd be talking about the
earnings exclusively, but we have to
talk about that now, too. Is this just a
political stunt or is this a real policy
issue?
>> Yeah, it's always Good morning, John.
It's it's always dangerous, particularly
for me, to wait into the political
realm. But, uh, from my perspective,
it's a political ploy that is going to
get very little traction. And uh as I
said in the note that that I shot over
to you a moment ago, unfortunately if
something like this were to take hold,
it would actually hurt the constituency
that I think uh the president's trying
to help. Um if you start to dictate um
economics in the financial services
business, it tend this would lead to
less credit availability uh for the
low-end consumer which would just
exacerbate the K uh that your prior
guest was uh was discussing. David, how
much do you take seriously some of the
targeting of banks on both sides of the
aisle in the United States in terms of
uh trying to either maybe not through
regulation but through caps or other
methods try to limit profitability? How
much does that complicate earnings that
are expected to be widely pretty
awesome?
>> Yeah, the the earnings as you said,
Lisa, should be pretty good. Um it it
ironically this administration has
actually been fairly bankfriendly as it
relates to uh regulatory reform which
has been a positive as it relates to the
timing of M&A deals getting done. Uh
under the prior administration it would
have taken 12 to 18 months for a bank
deal to get done and now you're seeing
deals the likes of the banks that
Huntington has bought and Fifth Third Co
America is going to get done in just 3
four months. So, um, that's actually
been good. And again, I I think this is
a very low likelihood of of of of
occurring or happening. And the stock
weakness is, you know, one of these
situations where um overvaluation meets
risk aversion. And when you see those
forces collide, you tend to get some
weakness. And these stocks have been
very very strong. So, some weakness here
is not surprising and and may give us an
opportunity to the extent it uh it it's
it's meaningful. Well, David, it goes to
the question of how much is multiple
expansion reaching the end of its limits
for some of these banks. In other words,
can they truly be growth stocks and move
away from being utilities that they were
thought of in the regulatory overhang of
the postfinancial crisis era?
>> Yeah, anytime someone tells me that
these are growth stocks, it's usually a
sell indicator. Uh, Lisa, from my
perspective, these banks are very good
businesses through the cycle. their ROEs
are actually very stable. Both credit
card companies and banks through the
cycle actually generate very respectable
ROEs and we expect that to continue. But
to give you some framework, the bank
index last year was up 30%. And revenues
or pre-provision earnings was up I'd say
6 and a half to 7%. So, uh you can kind
of do the math to get the sense as to
how much of that is multiple expansion.
And from our perspective, the stocks are
a little overheated uh here going into
earning season. It's it's the highest
bar that I can think of since 2021. So,
um we're of the view that you could get
a sell the news event in what is going
to be we think a pretty good quarter.
Actually, one of the best quarters we've
seen in some time, but again,
expectations are super high going in.
>> David, always good to see you. Thank
you, sir. Thanks for making time for us.
David Georgia going into bank earnings
and reflecting on some of the policy
proposals coming out of the White House.
This from JP Morgan just moments ago.
Not expecting any cuts now for 2026 from
this Federal Reserve.
>> Not expecting any cuts. And they talk
about a market uh unwilling to price out
labor market weakness and attention
occupied by the Fed chair race.
Additional front-end premium may persist
for a few months. And that's what we've
been focused on the entire morning. How
much of this is almost a crisis of its
own making for the administration
because this president wants to see
lower interest rates?
>> I don't know. I just I have to think
that ultimately a lot of people in the
Fed seat are looking at this and just
trying to judge the data. question of
the data. I I'm honestly I'm just
distracted. I hate to break it.
>> Feels like you
>> January 12th.
>> Okay. Just only the second week.
>> Feels [laughter] like a decade.
>> January 12th.
>> No, I mean you just like I like the
earnings. I'm excited for those. I'm
excited for the data. It'll be great.
>> Lisa might be back tomorrow [laughter]
or she might retire.
Find out.